when linux 1.0 was released to the world
almost 25 years ago its model of free
and open source software knocked down
all of the walls that had previously
been put in place by proprietary
software giants like Microsoft in order
to maintain control over the development
and distribution of computer programs
and as was said in a world without walls
who needs windows and gates when using
Windows its high degree of compatibility
makes it fine for everyday use for many
people especially gamers but since
Windows is a proprietary operating
system developers and users more or less
have to work within a relatively closed
software environment that places certain
restrictions on what you can do anyone
who is dealt with Windows Update or
Microsoft DRM features knows what I mean
Linux on the other hand has a completely
open-source kernel the central part of
the operating system that links your
Hardware with applications meaning that
it can be used freely for a purpose of
whatever you want for tons of different
use case scenarios etc these different
versions of Linux are commonly called
distributions or distros which provide
different stacks of software tools and
desktop environments all of which are
tied to the Linux kernel that combine to
form a complete operating system these
distros can range from anything like
Ubuntu or mint which are popular desktop
distributions often use as alternatives
to Windows to something like Android on
your smartphone two versions of Linux
found on supercomputers Linux is focus
on security and stability compared to
Windows which focuses more on ease of
use as made Linux extremely popular for
servers and other super critical
applications Linux is also generally
more lightweight and less resource heavy
than Windows which is beneficial for
home users who just want a very fast
computing experience on a possibly
low-end machine and even professionals
running servers that require high
efficiency as they can pick a distro
tailored for them by being very light on
stuff like eye candy and background
processes even to the point of being
just a command-line interface and while
that all sounds great that
doesn't mean that it's a great idea to
just run home and migrate your home PC
from Windows to Linux although a lot of
work has gone into making desktop Linux
distributions more user-friendly over
the last 10 years there's still a pretty
sharp learning curve if you've never
used Linux before Linux offers a lot
more granular control over your computer
than something like Windows or Mac OS
which actually does share a common
ancestor with Linux being Unix but
that's maybe something for a different
day taking advantage of this granular
control often requires a fair amount of
technical knowledge even if you're
running a simple system like something
like a Raspberry Pi it can still be
rather complicated and even distros that
place a greater emphasis on ease of use
do take some getting used to if all
you've ever known is Windows or Mac for
example most software isn't downloaded
through a web browser and installed
during Exe file like as it is in Windows
but instead goes through a package
manager which download software from
large repository specific to each
distribution kind of like an app store
on your phone that might sound a little
bit restrictive compared to the open
nature of searching for Windows software
on the web there's actually a wide
variety of applications available
through these package managers and tons
of these are free programs continuing
the Linux tradition of using open source
code but what if you want to game this
can admittedly be a challenge for a
number of titles requiring you to run a
Windows compatibility layer such as wine
to even to get them to work at all the
good news is that steam now features
over 1,000 games that work on Linux just
fine and the new steam OS is Linux based
as well so trying to master the
challenges that Linux presents in order
to tap into its potential sounds like
something that you want to do check out
some of the numerous free resources
available online like Linux newbie guide
to get additional technical info and
figure out exactly how you'd like to
customize it but if that sounds a little
bit overwhelming and you're mostly drawn
to Linux because of its infinitely cute
penguin mascot tux
you can download the completely
open-source sewing patterns to make your
own tux plushie and even though they've
been in alpha since I believe 2004 you
don't have to worry about recompiling
the kernel in order to do it another
thing you don't have to compile the
kernel to do is Dollar Shave Club get
razors and other bathroom supplies
shipped directly to your door for only a
few bucks a month you can get dr.
Carver's shave butter one wipe Charlies
post shave moisturizer travel sizes for
like all of these things and a variety
of shavers up to the six blade executive
so no need for vibrating handles are
none of that nonsense as you probably
know just some high-quality razors and
other various bathroom supplies like
butt wipes sent directly to your door go
to dollarshaveclub.com slash Linus and
sign up if you are in the US Canada or
Australia thank you guys for watching if
you like recompiling kernels and doing
all that nerdy stuff press the like
button if you don't like doing that kind
of stuff press the like button if you
dislike this video press the dislike
button if you want to see more of these
videos perks the subscribe button if you
want to see funny videos that don't make
you think so much click the button on my
face it's literally anywhere on the
screen it's the easiest one you could
possibly press and I'll see you guys
next time
hey what's going on guys in this video
we're going to cover the top ten Linux
interview questions these are the most
common Linux system administration job
interview questions that you'll find out
in the wild so these are what you'll get
in your first phone screen generally
they'll obviously be maybe more specific
interviews after this it also depends on
the position you're actually
interviewing for any given position
might involve lots of other tech - while
this covers the majority of like the
types of things that are asked during
junior Linux admin interviews you may
also want to know sort of the similar
types of questions for databases tcp/ip
and networking programming or a specific
programming language there may also be
infrastructure or architecture questions
if you're doing a more mid-level or
senior type position likewise you may be
asked about specific applications or
services you can get mad you can get sad
you can have lots of opinions about this
whatever this is just the reality for
tech phone screens your interviewer only
has a couple of minutes to figure out if
you're worth more time investment
so really regardless of what kind of job
interview you're preparing for if it
involves Linux in some capacity should
be really comfortable with these basic
things if you haven't yet make sure to
check out my basic Linux system
administration playlist because it
covers sort of a lot of the theory and a
lot of how Linux works behind what we're
going to talk about as a last piece of
caution or word of advice do not just
memorize these things because even if
you make it through the first phone
screen they're going to be pretty pissed
if it turns out that you actually don't
understand what you're doing after you
make it through by memorizing answers to
these basic questions use these
questions as a jumping-off point for
further exploration okay
so let's jump right in the first
question you should immediately know the
answer to is how would you check the
kernel version of the currently running
system that you're on the answer is you
name
you name prints out system information
specifically the - a the a flag you
named a will give you everything it's
got so
so you've got your hostname OS kernel
release kernel version architecture etc
there's a couple small permutations of
this that you can use so kernel version
kernel release if you're looking for
just those specific chunks of
information but that's unique so if
someone asks you how do you check the
kernel version of the system or even
what operating system is running this is
a fairly quick way to find out another
favorite question is how would you go
about checking what your current IP
address is and this may come in a couple
permutations like oh what's the current
address on you know the easy road of ice
or what's your current ipv6 address or
what have you it's a couple ways to do
the social you sort of the old in the
new way the old ways if config interface
configuration I've got a bunch of little
devices here don't worry about that this
is the loopback device and this is our
Ethernet device you can see our ipv4
address is here along with broadcast and
subnet mask our ipv6 address information
can be found here now someone asks you
for a specific interface in general you
should be using the the newer IP tools
command so IP a derp we want the address
show that gives you everything so all of
your devices or you can give another
argument the device name so IP add or
show 0 as you can see that gives you all
the info for Ethernet 0 including ipv4
and cider notation how would you check
for free disk space other versions of
this question or you know how would you
check how much disk space is left or
what percentage of disk space you're
using don't get tripped up by different
ways of asking these DF is your friend
DF all file systems human readable
formatting so DF space
- aah this will give you a readout of
all of your file systems including
virtual file systems you can see our
hard drive partitions are here and our
root partition is mounted on SDA one and
you can see it's five point eight gigs
of capacity we've used five gigs of that
so we've got about a half a gig left
we're using 91% so DF remember that disk
free managing services is a completely
normal part of being a linux decide man
or working with Linux in general so
don't be surprised if someone asks you
how would you see if a service is
running or how would you start or stop
us a service or how would you reload a
service on any newer system most major
Linux distributions have switched to
system D however on an older system you
would have said either service I'll use
at you dev just as the service name this
might be nginx or my sequel or what have
you
service name goes here service you'd
have status checks status of a service
start stop etc are also arguments you
can put at the end so service service
name and then what you want to do to it
on a newer system D system so something
that is not running this five minute or
upstart or another init system you would
use system CTL this is so this is the
new version quote unquote if that's all
you remember systemctl status service
now I want an old system I'm not using
system D so this is a command not found
but the important thing is it's
systemctl status service name you'll
notice that this is actually reversed
the order of the service or unit name
argument system D calls this a unit
instead of a service but that's pretty
much all you need to know it takes the
same start/stop and able to save will
reload etc you can see I've got some
some files and directories here how
would you check the total size of
everything inside
of a given directory I'm going to say do
Sh code will check the code directory
disk u s-- d u this is going to go and
tally that up so you can see I've got a
team eggs worth of stuff in my code
directory
nice and easy a little bit more
networking focused
how would you check for open ports let's
say this question can be asked in a
couple different ways
check listening network sockets open
ports I could say TC services that are
listening on TCP or UDP ports or sockets
so this question can come in a couple
different versions but if you hear you
know network socket listening ports TCP
and UDP services start thinking netstat
because that's that is what shows you
that stuff so by default it gives you
basically a uselessly big output it's
meant to be filtered down with with
other Linux and UNIX tools so you'll
probably want to run something like
netstat I like tu so critique the nud p
LP
and listening token just remember that
and it's pretty good shorthand for like
most times when you need this obviously
man netstat will get you the manual page
pronounced at more on that in a second
so this shows you the address and port
that different things are listening on
I'm actually going to run this command
as route because we're you're gonna
you'll see in a second you can see on
the right this PID or program name is
actually blank for everything because
we're not route only route can see that
so please say su do that so executed is
route you can see we now have all that
extra information okay so from left to
right what type of service is it well
it's TCP IP v4 TCP IP v6 UDP UDP AVP IP
v6 excuse me get a little excited here
the local address that it's listening on
the zero zero zero zero means
all public addresses port 80 foreign
addresses is it listening and the
process ID and name of the process so it
actually sort of looks up the process
name from the kid that owns this socket
so you can see nginx our web server is
listening on port 80 and anyone on our
local network that can get to our
machine can check out what we're hosting
on our web server one 27001 is our local
machine here so this is actually not
accessible from outside of our machine
again for more on that just learn a
little bit more about networking but
this netstat dash tul pn is extremely
useful and again remember to run it as
route with canvas it just gives you that
extra okay who is actually listening on
that port is very interesting to know
how would you check CPU usage of a given
process should run PS ax then grep for
your process name this is a pipe if
you're not familiar with pipes or highly
suggest that you watch some of my basic
shell videos it's like a building block
of linux and you should not be a
sysadmin if that doesn't make sense to
you so PS ox pipe it into grep and look
for nginx you can see these are all the
processes right now the process table to
have nginx in the name and you can get
some process information this way the
user it's running as you can see the
master process is running as root the
worker processes running as dub-dub-dub
data etc etc you kind of need to know
how to parse this read up on PS another
way of doing this is top you'll find top
just about everywhere so this is updated
by default I think every second or two
seconds this gives you a lot more
information top you can see by default
it's ordered descending order by CPU
time percentage of CPU that it's using
so this will be updated with your most
CPU intensive processes although you can
change what it's so
goodbye likewise it also gives you a
bunch of other stats about memory
swapping use load averages etc nice
alternative to this although you won't
find it installed by default is H top
that's interesting to you I like this
you can search it easily with like the
slash key search for some process gives
you a nice little graphical
representation of the cores it sees
memory swap etc nice and intuitive so
that's how you sort of check what's
going on with processes what users own a
process would what a process is running
as and things like CPU memory usage etc
how would you mount some kind of mute
volume let's say a new hard drive
partition that you've just plugged in
let's say a USB stick how would you
mount that in your system
well Linux will generally have a
directory called mount on root and that
is sort of the the canonical place to
mount things so to mount a new volume
you would say mount is the command and
then the absolute path to the volume so
if it's a device like let's see it's a
hard drive partition SDA - it's the
second partition on the SD a hard drive
you could say mount address and then the
mount point I just wanted to mount it on
mount MNT this would be the command
likewise checking for existing mounts is
just the mount command without any
arguments so you can see here's what's
mounted and the mount options it's got
you also get the filesystem type so x4
got a butter if s here on last little
trick on mount just because it's fast
if you automatically need to mount a
volume at boot what file would you look
in the answer is e TC FS tad we take a
quick look at that file you can see this
is our disk partitions that we want so
this is SD a one and it's UUID unique
user ID of unique device ID and our swap
part
sj5 its unique ID so that we can find
that at Bhutan when I generally make
changes to config files that are not
part of a larger system like just on my
desktop so not as part of a business
configuration management setup I like to
just leave my name in there just so I
can quickly grep for files that have
this string in them so that I can see
everything that I've changed on the
system you know that isn't in some kind
of configuration management or automatic
provisioning script finally the very
very most important thing man pages you
will get asked how you look stuff up how
do you find answers to questions your
first answer to this should be it's a
command I look at the man pages the
manual pages so man command gets you
there so for example man PS you want to
know all the options you could pass to
PS it's kind of a big command here are
all the interesting things you can do
with it generally man pages have a sort
of name of the command basic synopsis
the way you call it so the syntax for
calling it a description of the command
sort of many many very dense tutorial
usually and some examples bsds are a lot
better than most Linux distros for this
but you hope to find an example section
at the bottom in this case you've got an
example section here although this is
often missing depending on what the
command is and then a listing of all the
options in detail see this is a very old
and well-documented command other than
man Google server fault Stack Overflow
these are good answers in an interview
you should know multiple ways of finding
answers to questions if you haven't read
it yet I will link it here with the how
to ask smart questions or how to ask
questions the smart way article is
required reading for anybody in tech so
I hope that's been useful if you want
more of these either more for Linux for
higher-level Linux questions or for
other sort of skill silos like databases
networking programming infrastructure
cloud stuff applications and services
I'd be happy to make more of these
videos so they're helpful leave a
comment with stuff you'd like to see
covered subscribe for more if you
haven't already check out the basic
sysadmin skills playlist because there's
just a whole lot of background stuff you
need to know in there so good luck on
your job hunt and in your interviews and
maybe we'll run across each other in
real life sometime thanks for watching
guys
Translator: Ehab Alsaadi checker: Ahmad Altamimi
Chris Anderson: It is a great thing
That your program (Lennox) is present in millions of computers,
That perhaps most of what occupies the internet.
I think there's a lot,
Nearly one billion and a half of the effective system of Android devices,
And your system is each device in them.
It's a wonderful thing!
There should be centers of giant control program to manage all this.
That's what I was my belief and I was surprised when I saw a picture of her.
I mean this picture
These centers Linux Control
( Laughter )
( clap )
Linus Torvalds: It is not really Abdoazima.
And I must say,
Aloktheratharh interesting thing in this picture,
Which often it will draw people's attention,
It is a mobile office.
It is the most striking thing in my office,
I do not use it at all.
I think two things are linked.
Way I work is
I do not want any influential external.
Kindly if you watch, the green lights on the walls.
They told me in Masssat mental illness they use them on the walls.
( Laughter )
It really is the color of soothing,
It is not something that distracts your attention.
Thing that you can not see it in this picture, is a computer you see only the screen,
But the only thing I care about in my computer is
It should not be a great and mighty, even though Connie loved him to be well
But it must be completely silent.
I know several people working in Google
They have a small private data centers in their homes,
I am not doing this job
My office is more boring office will see.
And sit there alone in the quiet.
If my cat,
Sitting in my lap.
And I prefer to hear the voice of the cat,
Not the voice of coolants in the computer
Chris Anderson: Amazing!
Because the work in this way,
You can access this technology empire and spread
Yes, it is an empire
This is a great testimony to the impact of open source system.
Tell us how you come to discover open Aalmsdr?
And how it led to the development of (Lennox).
Linus Torvalds: I'm still working on my own,
I still true working alone in my house,
And often in the bathroom.
When we arrived at the photographer, for six,
So clothes showed.
( Laughter )
And so I always work,
What I mean, so I began to (Lennox), as well.
I did not begin (Lennox) as a collaborative project,
But it began a series of several projects
Have completed at that time for myself,
Maybe because I wanted a final outcome,
And more for some reason because I I enjoyed programming.
So the trip was about to end,
Even after 25 years we did not get anything.
But it was about the fact that the forward-looking your draft
There was an open system, the fact that my reasoning at all.
But it happened ..
The project has evolved and become something people should look on it.
Really "It is of this world," Look what I did!
Trust me, it was not that at the time of greatness.
And made available to all,
, But it was not an open system at the time,
At that stage, was the source of the system was open but there was no intention,
To use the principle of open system currently used
To develop,
I have been subject,
"Look I've worked on this project for half a year,
I would like to hear your comments and your views on it. "
Some of the people came to
At the University of Helsinki,
I have a friend who was from members of the open source system
He was called mainly "free software" at that time,
He gave me the idea that, hey,
That you can use the licenses open source system that has been licensed
And I thought about this for a period of time,
I was already worried about material gains.
I mean, he was one of the concerns I think most people who call something,
They would show concern about who will benefit from their work right?
And decided, what is this ..
And ..
Anderson: At some point,
Someone contributed to some of the code that considered,
"This is what it's amazing I had not thought about this!
It is already Satorh. "
Linus Torvalds: I did not actually start the contribution of the people in the knuckles,
It was the contribution of more people in the ideas.
And the fact that someone else takes a look at your project
I'm sure they are correct in the fact that many other things,
But of course, correct in programming
That if someone is interested in your business software,
And gave him a look enough to give his personal opinion, where
And it gives you also ideas.
It was a great thing to me.
I was 21 at the time of any that I was still a young man.
. But I have worked in the programming half of my life basically,
Each project before it was a personal project
He received revelations, when people began to show their opinions,
And their feedback about your business software.
Even before they start giving their opinions,
It was one of the most important Hzata where I said,
" I love people "
Do not get me wrong
I really am not a social person,
( Laughter )
I really do not like people,
( Laughter )
But I love computers
I love dealing with people through e-mail,
Because it makes you in isolation from the people.
But I love the people who look their opinions and contribute to the project.
And make him a great thing.
Chris Anderson: I've passed you the moment you see what has been built
And then suddenly it has been taken from you,
I took and think "should Atmhl, my project will become a great project,
And not only a personal project, get feedback and positive opinions about him,
But some kind of tremendous development in all the world of technology?
Linus Torvalds: Not quite,
What I mean, the distinguishing mark for me, were not that it has become something great,
It was a milestone for me since it was a small project.
The difference Kababr for me is that I'm not alone
Where I got 10 or perhaps 100 participants in the project
It was something difference.
Then everything became gradually increasing.
100 Hkhadd to millions of people was not a great thing to me ...
Well, I mean, maybe that if you
( Laughter )
If you want to sell the outcome of your business this is a great difference.
Do not get me wrong
But you if you are interested in technology,
And I was interested in this project,
The great thing was to enter the community.
After taking society is growing gradually.
There is actually not a single distinguishing mark only where I started,
"Wow, I just took off!" Because
I mean - it's a relatively long time took.
Anderson: people in the field of technology who spoke with them owe you a lot
To change their work widely.
And not because of (Lennox) only,
But because of the thing that is called "Jet",
Which is the administrative system for software development.
Tell us about it and rent your role in it.
Torvalds: One of the problems we have encountered,
Which took time, even appeared,
That when
When your project grows from the presence of 10 people or 100 people working the stage
To the presence of 10,000 people stage,
What I mean, we are now in the development of our presence in essence,
We have 1,000 shareholders in each version
This is repeated every two months, approximately two or three months.
Some of these people did not work much.
There are a lot of people who have made a few changes.
But to maintain this,
Extensive changes and maintain.
We encountered a lot of difficulties.
There are complete projects for the maintenance of the source code.
Sa.vi.as is one of the most commonly used these programs,
And I hated Sa.vi.as much and refused to use it
And experimented with other things that were more enjoyable
And others Loha.
Chris Anderson: (Laughter)
Linus Torvalds: We have been in a bad location,
Where there are thousands of people who want to participate,
But in many ways I was in a place I want to stop,
I can not expand to the degree
Working with thousands of people.
So Jet is the second draft,
Which was established to maintain the first draft.
And this is literally how I was working.
Not for ... do I program
Well, I'm scheduled for entertainment
But I want to do I program something meaningful
Therefore, each project had finished it something I wanted
And ....
Chris Anderson: actually both Linux and Jet type who grew up
Almost as a result of an unintended
To your desire not to work with many people.
Torvalds: Yes, of course.
( Laughter )
Chris Anderson: This stunning. Linus Torvalds: Yes.
( clap )
And also, you're the man who about technology
Not only once, but twice,
We need to know why
And still give us some clues, but
This picture of you as a kid with you and the Rubik's Cube
You've She was since you programmed your age 10 or 11,
Half of your life.
Are you a computer genius, obsessed with learning,
Are you the best in Akadiraly school to do everything?
How do you as a kid?
Linus Torvalds: I think you're a nerd style.
I mean, I was ...
I was not the social person then.
this is my little brother.
I have more Astmtaaa in the Rubik's Cube
More than my brother.
( Laughter )
My little sister and that do not appear in this picture?
When we meet family meetings,
It was not our family big family, but I had two children my cousins,
I was gonna make it in advance.
Before you enter the room was saying,
"Yes. And this also .."
Because I did not ...
I was obsessed.
Obsessed with computers,
Obsessed with mathematics,
Obsessed with physics.
I was good at it.
I do not think I freaked a particular field.
Clearly, my sister said
The most extraordinary feature I own that I do not give up.
Anderson: Yes, let's talk about this it is interesting.
You do not give up.
Ie it is not about Being a maniac or intelligent,
It relates to stubborn Being a?
Torvalds: they relate to Kony stubborn.
This is something, like,
To start with something
And not to say "Yes, I finished it, .. I'll start with the completion of something else
It looks great "
I've noticed the same thing many parts of my life, too.
I have lived in Silicon Valley for seven years.
And it worked for the same company, in Silicon Valley,
All time .
This is something exceptional.
This is not as things usually take place in Silicon Valley.
Customary in Silicon Valley that people move between several works
Such as mixing liquid in the pot.
This is not my character.
Chris Anderson: But during the period of the development of Linux,
That stubbornness made you sometimes in conflict with the rest of the people.
He talked about it a little bit.
Was it necessary to preserve what is being built?
How are described to us what happened?
Linus Torvalds: I do not know whether it was necessary.
I go back again to being "I am not a person socially"
Sometimes I also
Can we say,
"Short-sighted" when it comes to the feelings of the rest of the people,
And it is the thing that makes me say things annoy and hurt the rest of the people.
And I'm not proud of it.
( clap )
But, at the same time
Encounter some people told me I have to be nice.
Then when I try to explain to them that maybe they are disagreeable,
But perhaps he likes to be more aggressive.
Consider it I'm not being nice.
( Laughter )
And when I try to say that we are different.
I'm not the social person,
It is not something that is particularly proud of him,
But he is part of my personality.
And that one of the things that I liked the principle of open source
To give the field to two different people to work with some.
Is not a requirement to admire each other
And sometimes do not even admire each other.
Really .. I mean, there are many sharp debates.
But in fact, you can, find things
Which do not have agreement or disagreement on them,
It relates to different things that you are interested.
And to return to the point I said earlier
I was afraid of people materialists to benefit from your business,
It turns out, and quickly turns out that,
That these people were materialists people very loved.
And they have all the things that I was not interested in doing it,
But they have completely different goals.
And used Aamuftouh source in ways I did not want her.
But it was an open source managed to do so,
And work with them beautifully.
In fact, I think it's done the same way.
You need the presence of people, and people communicate with each other,
People Aldavian and friendly
People who ..
( Laughter )
Who really want to Ienicok and Adechlok community.
But this does not apply to all people.
And not Ali.
I'm interested in technology.
There are people interested in the interface.
I can not use the interface to save my life.
I mean, if stranded on the island in ways
The only way to get out of the island was to do a nice interface,
I will die there
( Laughter )
So there are many types of people,
And I do not give excuses, I just explain.
Anderson: Now, when we talked last week,
I talked to me about some of the qualities owned,
And which I found impressive.
Including the idea called taste.
I've just got a bunch of pictures here.
I think this example is not a good taste in programming,
And this in the best taste,
O one you can see them off.
What is the difference between the two of these?
Torvalds: So this ...
How many people here who actually Bermjawa?
Chris Anderson: Oh my God! .
Linus Torvalds: So I guarantee you,
Everyone raised his hand,
Complete list associated with monophonic.
They know ...
This first picture is not a good approach to taste,
Which basically how it was taught when I started programming.
You have to understand programming is not required.
The most interesting part for me
Instruction (IF final).
Because of what happened in the list associated with monophonic
This attempt to remove an existing entrance from the list ..
There is a difference between whether the first entry
And whether the entrance in the middle.
Because if the first entrance,
You must change the cursor to the first entry
If in the middle,
You must change the cursor to the previous entrance.
So they are two completely different.
Anderson and better.
Linus Torvalds: and this is the best.
There is no instruction (IF).
It does not matter actually
Do not want you why they do not have an instruction (IF),
But what I want to understand
That sometimes we can see the problem in a different way.
And re-written so that the special case go away
And become the normal state of natural.
This is a beautiful way and programming.
And but simple programming.
This CS101.
Is not important, although, of course, important details.
For me, the quality of the people who actually want to work with them
Quality that we have the advantage of taste, which
You have sent you a stupid example
This is irrelevant because it is a simple example.
Good taste is much larger than this.
Good taste is to see the big patterns actually
And the type of knowledge instinctual correct way to get things done.
Anderson: Well, now we want to link the data with each other.
You have a taste compiler feature,
Somehow meaningful for programmers.
You ..
( Laughter )
Linus Torvalds: I think it was meaningful to some people here.
Chris Anderson: You are a computer programmer is very intelligent,
And stubborn hellishly.
But surely there is something else
I mean, I changed the future.
And certainly able to derive those great visions for the future.
You Reader for the future is true?
Linus Torvalds: I felt not somewhat in comfort TED
Balummen the last two,
Because there are a lot of visions of the future, is not it?
And I'm not a reader for the future.
I do not have a plan for the next five years.
I'm an Engineer .
And I think it really.
I mean, I'm really happy with the people
Who are walking around and staring overcast
And see the stars of and say, "I want to go there."
But I look at the earth,
And I want to fix the hole in front of me
Before he dropped it.
This is my personal existing.
(Cheers)
( clap )
Anderson: I have talked to me last week about these two men.
Of these, and what is your relationship with them?
Torvalds: Well, these flags of technology,
All the technology, Tesla vs. Edison,
As it is seen Tesla as the ideal world and a man crazy idea.
And the people you love Tesla.
I mean, there are people named their companies after his death his name.
( Laughter )
The other person is Edison,
Which often disparage because it lacks inspiration
and he
I mean, the most famous sayings is,
"Genius is" one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration and fatigue. "
And I'm in the camp of Addison.
Even if people do not always admire.
Because if you compare the two,
Tesla has a mental approach to this today,
But it is actually the world?
Edison may not be the person gentle,
But the work of many things
Maybe he was not educated,
It does not have a vision for the future.
But I think I tend to Edison Aktrmen Tesla.
Anderson: the special feature of TED this week are dreams
Big dreams, bold and steadfast.
And you counter all this property.
Torvldes: I'm trying to push it a little, it is true.
Anderson: That's good.
( Laughter )
We Nandhank and Ntbnak.
Companies like Google and many others have worked, we can say,
About, billions of dollars through your program.
Is this thing bother you?
Torvalds: No
No, this does not bother me for several reasons.
And one of these reasons, I do a good job.
I'm doing really good job.
But the other reason is
I mean, without the work of a full open source and allow him to become something,
When he arrived LINUX for what it is.
And bring a lot of experience and that do not Ohabzha, public speech.
But at the same time, this experience also.
Trust me.
So a lot of things were going to make me a happy man
I think I've options and the right things.
Chris Anderson: Is the idea of ​​open source
This, I think we'll end here
Is the idea of ​​open source reached fully to the world,
Or that there is a lot to be presented,
There are many things that can be done?
Linus Torvalds: I have two opinions on this subject.
I think it is for the sole reason open source works well in programming
.. is that at the end of the day,
Programming tends to be something black and white.
Often there is a good way to make a decision,
This has been properly and this is not.
Programming is either working or not.
This means the field is less controversial.
Despite this controversy we have, right?
In many other things
I mean that people talked about open policies, such matters
And It is sometimes difficult to say
It is possible to apply the same principles as many other things
Because it is black white shift, but not only gray,
But other colors.
Therefore, it is clear that open source in the process of returning to science.
Science was there first.
But then science ended for being very closed,
With very expensive magazines and some things that are going,
Open Source is working on the return of science,
With things like ArXiv and open magazines.
Wikipedia changed the world, too.
So there are many examples,
And I am sure that many are also coming.
Anderson: but you are not a reader for the future,
This is not due to you designated.
Torvalds: No
( Laughter )
It is up to you, young people of their making is not it?
Chris Anderson: Of course
Linus Torvalds,
Thank you for Lennox, thank you online,
Thank you for all Android phones.
Thank you for coming here and for your release TED yourself volumes about how.
Linus Torvalds: Thank you.
( clap )
I was with my reason ruin currency
33 status Camps
[Music]
Welcome to a new episode of HAWAII
where we will talk about the pau
series of robots and how to install cali in
one android cell
Mr. robot in the series look
as jute uses the pony express
Boujon a phone loaded with 103
security tools to make
audits undoubtedly a
any hacker would have on the
episode of the series of mystery or less
elliot for use in your background
crack tool name without the
which allows you to send a mail or
through a sms to the victim
crackear his cell failure that
show in the series represents one of iu
actually this ruling is based on Woods
which currently can not be exploited
for updates manufacturers
however there is the possibility that
failures in the future are
Similar
The aim of this video is to watch
as hackers systems violate
learn to protect ourselves and also help
to improve security but can not remember
that today we will not speak of this
but the type of device failures
she uses to launch this attack and
creating our laboratory
ethical hacking on a cell phone
android cell pau font actually
It does exist and it was possible to buy before
about a thousand dollars in
Pauner page express puntocom
However , the company Pauny express
decided in 2014 to stop selling the
cell and release the code to the
community
since then the system can be
installed on any android phone
but the truth is that the project is
a little abandoned or is based paufe
cali linux and just after the
2015
born net against version of cali
for architecture
rm this is very good because now
we can install linux in cali
any cell android fuck
the mobile version of cali can
running on mobile nexus one plus and
some cellular samsung galaxy without
problems
It is very important that before proceeding
this tutorial to your cell
it supports all your information as
you will lose everything you have
Also remember that if your phone does not
It is a nexus 5 may not follow this step
step since each cell has a
different process
but if you know linux and android level
intermediate or advanced most likely can
border net install any
android phone taking this video
as reference
I suggest you also see the video
completely before making any
TUNISIA thing 5- or any other
Android device now I show
cali installing Linux on a link 5
with the phone off let's leave
press the power button and
volume down until we enter mode
Fast boot proceed to download
image links 5 to leave the cell
formatted as manufactured
Now let's download the sdk ceiling
your Windows on their ships unloaded
proceed to decompress the file
then move it to the hard drive
Now let's configure the variables
the environment to use
Android SDK tools do
click for advanced are watchmen
then click on the button
environment but bowls and there but
Bowes click on me or to add
Unzip the path where the folder
plato your
[Music]
Now let's postpone firmware
Factory 5 for links that open md
as an administrator and will copy
address where the file is located
Lion pointed bat fly and to enter
the route from cmd
Finally you only need to open the
flash file script to this point bat
script does everything necessary to leave
Nexus 5 - fresh
we set our cell factory
indicating the data requested us
guided setup
Now let's mode
developer in the cell for this
let 's go to Settings on the
8 clicks device and do where
It is shown the build number
after the configuration
let's go to the section options
then we activate programmer
Also enable USB debugging
again initiate cell mode
fast boot we ensure that our
computer phone with text
fast boot command countries and
we unlock the phone with the command
oem fast boot loop
[Music]
Now we will install pp with you w
the recovery command and the image of tea
pp w in this case this double or efe the
ing point nexus
Once you finished installing pp w
we will select the cell
mou recovery
Now we will install Supersur for that
we will slide the blue button and we
to click on Natanz
then select the button
blood side must make a sweep and the
she is waiting cell
super wanted his crown should from
computer for that just
devesa execute the command and Doubt
and the name of his super in this
If your point is super yep we -among
and we hope we can see Supersur
It was successfully installed
[Music]
Now we proceed with the installation
we have to climb the first sip
putting our nexus mode
storage and simply paste
cne with three points and to install
[Music]
Once the file is within
our cell
We start our phone in recovery
mut and select the Install button
to select the best point and sip
Finally confirm installation
Shuaib doing this blue slider
we select part
applications that we want
then install and click next
We accept if the cell is not reset
after installation stays
marking 70% and 90% progress
after approximately 30
minutes can simply reboot or
turn off the cell for this you have to
press the down volume key and
on until you restart the
team turn will see what
net against him was installed correctly
the first time you open net against him
it will ask permission ruth
which you will have to accept for
proper system operation
[Music]
after what we have achieved
now we can audit any
system with the power of Linux cali
our pocket today they
I have this question what kind of attack
They would like to learn to audit with
this device
let me your comment below
[Music]
let them also links the
Downloadable we use in
description and also I have them
great news
[Music]
last October 11 transmitted the
first episode of the third season
my robot last October 11th
They aired the first episode of the
third season of my robots and that
I think we will all be very
happy because of course we will
explain the changes that happen in
our robot to learn to
protect us
do not forget to subscribe and follow - up
my social networks to be aware of and
good friends of mine this video
Today I hope you liked
caesar remember my name Gaytan
mistral on twitter arroba to
next
[Music]
no no
this epsilondec show is brought to you
by those fine fine folks over at
system76
i specifically want to call out this
beautiful laptop this is the gala GoPro
I've had a chance to play with this
sucker and it is gorgeous it is thin it
is felt in his metal and it feels so
good there's little edges I don't know
if you can see him there but like the
power button it like sticks out but only
just barely and it just feels good to
touch it's a hell of a little Ultrabook
and it starts at 9:59 over its system76
calm seriously I absolutely love that
laptop it's friggin fantastic and Pogo
Linux Pogo Linux has some of the coolest
servers specifically storage servers
just cruise through this for a second
bear with me if you go over to Pogo
Linux comm click on their servers right
at the top of the page there's a little
storage server section click on storage
servers scroll down the very first entry
the Atlas to to 3-12 it's a 2-u unit
look at the maximum memory that it has
for friggin terabytes of RAM starting at
5,000 bucks sure 5000 might be a lot to
pay for a computer but with 4 terabytes
of RAM a computer that can handle 4
terabytes of RAM holy frijoles that's
ridiculous alright you can find out more
of a Pogo linux.com and of course
viewers like you I today want to talk a
little bit about Microsoft I don't talk
about Microsoft that much I used to work
at Microsoft I worked at Microsoft for
quite a few years in fact this was a
long time ago so was back in the late
90s and early 2000s very early 2000s I
worked at Microsoft I worked
specifically over on Windows Media
Player for Macintosh and Solaris believe
it or not and I also worked over on
their HD DVD solutions way back before
they even really got off the ground and
then they died and I also worked on
office Microsoft Office for Mac for Mac
OS 10 crazy time anyway I want to talk a
little bit about Microsoft strategy here
relating to
because this is kind of an interesting
thing to me recently it came out that
the open source Institute the OSI they
they signed on Microsoft as a sponsor
they're a sponsor of the OSI now and
that was interesting because wow I mean
who would have seen that coming ten
years ago right and and looking through
it they're also a one of the biggest
sponsors a huge platinum-level sponsors
of the Linux Foundation like oh my god
that's huge and they make a huge amount
of money off of their their Azure
services but you know virtual machines
running Linux and and on top of that
they now have the Linux subsystem in
Windows so you can run like
distributions like openSUSE or a bun -
right inside Windows I mean it's not
really a full distro you're really just
running you know a bash environment a
command line with with that running but
still that's that's a big thing for
Microsoft
why would they do that you know this
this I think a lot of people within the
Linux and free software world looks at
events like this like Microsoft doing
this and with a lot of skeptical nough
sand I think rightly so I mean after all
Microsoft their old CEO Steve Ballmer is
famous for having called you know Linux
you know basically the cancer you know
the GPL and Linux or or enemy number one
for Microsoft for so long I uh and I've
told this story before but when I was
working on Windows Media Player for Mac
and Solaris this was back before Mac OS
10 was a glimmer in anyone's eye this
was back during the Mac OS 8 days so
this is what 1997-98 something like that
I was working over there and this was I
guess would have been 98 moving towards
99 anyway
they had a launch party for the new
version of Windows at the time you know
Windows 2000 was coming along was this
Windows 2000 no yes no well shoot now my
time lines are all mixed mixed up this
was like a million years ago for me
anyway there's a launch event and they
had a party at Microsoft Microsoft
usually does pretty good with parties
and such and I went to this party and it
was for new version of Windows and I
wasn't a Windows user you know I was a
Mac user and UNIX user at the time and I
even dabbled in os/2 at home but but I
wasn't really using Windows anywhere I
think the only Windows machine I ever
used even though I was working at
Microsoft was the one cheap Windows PC I
had at Microsoft that was specifically
used for nothing but the bug tracking
tool known as raid back then that
Microsoft used at the time that was it
that was like the only thing that I did
anyway anyway so I was at this party and
one of the cool things about the party
was there was an opportunity for a bunch
of the Microsoft executives mostly like
leaders of the windows team to get up
and give a rah-rah speech they had this
little platform they'd assembled and the
party was very cool there and it was
like laser tag and buffets and beer was
flowing freely but then its platform set
up and people got up you know like
general managers and whatnot said I'm so
proud of this version of Windows and and
we did so good and we're changing the
world with more Windows eNOS it was it
was very boring so I was there with a
Solaris developer who worked on the
Solaris version of wind of Windows Media
Player which a lot of people don't even
know was a thing and so he and I were
hanging out we felt like kind of like
the redheaded stepchildren you know of
Microsoft because I mean I was working
on like I had just finished building a
new installer for Windows Media Player
for Mac OS 8 and below I mean and he was
working on Windows Media Player for
Solaris I mean we were really we were
very much off to the side so we were
there we were walking around kind of
laughing and joking around and being
generally you know just two guys having
a good time and we go up to the stage
with our with our plates of a little
like you know pigs-in-a-blanket sand
other random assortment of appetizers
and our beers and whatnot and we're
sitting in front of this stage and steve
ballmer comes on stage and well this is
cool right cuz I mean he's still Steve
Ballmer even if you don't like Steve
Ballmer or what he says you still if you
have the opportunity to see someone like
Steve Ballmer speak you know you hang
around right so I'm right up at the
stage I'm right up at the stage right
there and he comes on stage and he
starts talking so he's elevated above me
so he's like up there right he's like
way up high above me and I'm like like
at my eye level is his like navel level
so he's up there and he's talking about
how proud he is of the new release of
Windows and whatnot and then it stops
and takes a turn and he starts talking
about Linux he talked about some of the
other competitors too but he gets to
Linux and he starts yelling about how he
hates Linux
he hates Torvalds he hates that
Norwegian and he's just a screaming
about it and as he screaming I'm sitting
there with with the Solaris nerd and I'm
the the Mac UNIX heel of a nerd and
we're sitting there were like right it
gets all over and he and I kind of walk
away half shell-shocked half just
laughing because I mean that was that
was pretty funny for us and we're
walking away and I realized my glasses
covered in Ballmer spit like just little
flecks of Ballmer spittle all over my
glasses and I realized that and I show
that to him and he's like oh crap and we
both realized that we were there just
standing there with our mouths open like
ah which means
we swallowed bombers spit that's
something that happened and I can't undo
that event but that's just an event that
occurred and there's no way I can undo
that that's something that happened in
my life see there's certain things you
just have to own up to anyway so so the
company that's famous for for having a
CEO that just hated Linux so much is now
investing so much into Linux
organizations why and this it gets kind
of interesting and I think in order to
answer this we have to put ourselves
into the shoes of the current Microsoft
CEO Satya Nadella he has to earn profit
that comes before everything right you
have to earn your income you just got it
right it doesn't matter if that income
comes from windows or office or Xbox or
as your services or something else but
part of how you do that is you hedge
your bets and so I think part of what
we're seeing when Microsoft is investing
in these working groups and these
organizations is them hedging their bets
right they're getting to a point where
they can drive some control over these
organizations in order to hedge their
bets but I think it goes further than
that
I think I think it harkens back to the
old strategy of embrace extend
extinguish and it's it's been a
functional strategy for them and for
other companies for a long time in order
it is always going to be in Microsoft's
best interest to sell more copies of
Windows than to sell support contracts
or services that are related to Linux
which they can't directly themselves
monetize
at least not easily so based on that
why put Linux into Windows with the the
the windows subsystem for Linux and I
think I think it comes down to both
options hedge their bets stop it stop
losses of people leaving windows to go
use Linux which is happening we are
seeing Linux market share uptick in
Windows market share down tech I mean
maybe maybe not in droves but enough
that it does have at least some impact
on the bottom line
even if not a huge one so have that in
place and also hedge their bets in case
mmm that continues on so to say that ok
we're already in the Linux business
right but on the same token on the same
token you don't want to go so far if
your Microsoft that you caused people to
leave Windows for Linux you don't want
it you don't want that to happen so what
I would do if I was such in a dough and
I was at Microsoft I would have
developed the windows subsystem for
Linux I would have absolutely done that
I would have made it so it was possible
to run a lot of Linux server software
basically a lamp stack and development
tools and you know you know getting
other things inside of a bash session on
Windows I would have absolutely made
that happen because then that makes it
easier to pitch Windows as a development
machine to web development shops and the
like makes it much easier it's a much
easier story that way I would have
absolutely done that but it would have
also become critical to the working
groups that control at least some of
Linux and various Linux ecosystems for
multiple reasons the first it's just to
make sure that we're I'm in good with
them right I want to make sure that
they're in a position where maybe the
public is feeling a little less negative
towards me maybe if more of my revenue
needs to come from Linux and Linux
related services it sets me up in a good
it's just a good place to be I mean it's
just it makes makes basic dollar cents
the other thing is I would want to be
able to have control I would want to be
able to say to those organizations do or
don't do something that would help my
bottom line something that may hurt
Linux for other people might be good for
me
in order to do that I would want to make
sure that I was one of the top
contributors financially to those
organizations so much so that those
organizations become reliant on my
revenue that's what I would want to have
happen even if I don't have any specific
plans right now for how I would want to
ask them to do or not do something just
to have the opportunity just to have the
option I would want that very very much
it would be it would be very important
it'd be it'd be a very good strategy
long term so I would go to the OSI I
would go to Linux the Linux Foundation
and I would become a big sponsor of
theirs and and you do you see that Oh
when was it this was November of last
year
Microsoft fortifies commitment to open
source becomes Linux Foundation Platinum
Member big big platinum member and now
interestingly what do you see them
releasing you receive them releasing the
dotnet core 1.0 is open source
the WSL stuff the windows subsystem for
linux initially with canonical and then
with openSUSE and others an image for
azure on freebsd they acquired xamarin
and built a series of open-source
development kits around that and dotnet
and mono and working with multiple linux
companies or i mean this is this is
smart if I was Microsoft this is what I
do this is absolutely what I do it's
it's a brilliant maneuver I think that's
that's the way it should go
that's I do that's absolutely what I do
because not only does it mean that the
these foundations are monetarily
indebted to me but then they're become a
reliance on that income if you give a
foundation a bunch of money enough money
that they could hire a couple of people
and they turn around and and they hire
those people well now they can't lose my
donation because if they lose my
donation that to fire those people and
then they have to downsize and that's no
good so now they're gonna do what they
can to make me happy it's very very
simple it's very very straightforward so
that's what I would do I would also
release enough of my services as open
source under a variety of different
licenses to get to the same point where
people are now reliance on it I would
make sure that enough big companies
become reliant on the open source
version of.net core Microsoft sequel
server running on Linux I would make
sure of that because then more people
would be reliant on it it makes it
easier for us to move them over to
Windows servers in the future which we
learn more money on so we want that to
happen right if we're the CEO of
Microsoft we want that to happen and it
also means that we can try and see if if
any sort of ugly competition against us
rears its head we can try and utilize
our pressure in multiple organizations
to try and squash that that's just the
way it is that's what I would do and I
don't think that I'm alone in that
because that's exactly what I see Sachi
and Adele of the currency of Microsoft
doing part of that helps Linux a lot of
it doesn't really mean anything yet and
a whole bunch more of it could hurt
Linux in the long run and that's
somewhat frightening that's somewhat
frightening I'm not sure what I feel
about it
honestly I honestly don't know umm I am
increasingly wary over how they will
wield that influence we've seen a lot of
influence being wielded from Microsoft
and other corporations in entities like
the w3c and very
standards bodies and now they are a
major members of the OSI the Linux
Foundation these are our these are our
foundations these are our free software
Linux and open-source loving
organizations that are now reliant on
Microsoft to pay their bills and that
concerns me deeply and I don't know what
to do about it
more and more
people think
any transition from windows
to another OS or on
installation of the second
operating system
on your computer
this was particularly
true after
Exit windows 10
because not everyone
I wanted her
just move
because I have not seen on
the reasons and the closest
alternative windows
naturally became linux
although those with the sea
money certainly buy
max every day I
I meet people
who are interested
Linux seek
which distribution
was put to
and beautiful and settings
He demanded as much as possible
less of the car was
much in this video, I
I want to talk about 50
bottles that are on linux
my opinion will
ideal for
home computer
Of course if you do not
avid gamer
or user
programs
exist only
the windows if you're from
of this video is unlikely
Whether for you so start
from the famous
largest and one of the
the oldest
linux distributions under
baby name
This distribution is made
The basis of most
others such as ubuntu
steam os and many, many
other
distinguishing
features debian is
his highest
stability
reliability and
versatility
the default system
not under that are not sharpened
and therefore any
user can
repeat from it that
anything and the system for
home computer
the mobile server
wood and so on simply
the versatility
large community
developers and
people are doing
Appin very interesting
from all points of view
release of debian 8 Jesse
I became ever
simple friendly
user from
boxes
played
big number
multimedia formats
without use
additional
number of codecs
supported
equipment
increased system
It requires minimal
after finishing
installation which
is only
connection
program sources
for open source
code
such as
proprietary
driver cards
and configure utility
vessels
which is used
to provide
administrator rights
any system
operation e.g.
installing applications
or upgrade
systems and all system
fully prepared to
and will not work
claim for itself
absolutely nothing
Moreover, there
Russian assembly debian
called point windows
and even this is
configured out of the box
and during the installation
You can set
additional
parameters as in any
linux distributions
choice available
several
GUIs
different external
the guise of
functionality
demanding to
Resources and convenience
cadre gnome
xfce and lxde and mother and
Cinnamon
for stability
have to pay
some freshness
applications
but this problem
is solved
connection
official
repository backwards
are added
such as fresh
linux kernel version that
It allows
use the system
at the latest
equipment or
multimedia
applications also
can be useful to my
repositories that
I collect program
who do not
standard
debian repositories and 8
also fresher
version of what already
have such video drivers
a reference to it in
description of the roller
all things considered
above can be
conclude a moron
if not the one who
of the best choices in
as a home
operating system
and as
Alternatively, windows
following
distribution and then
where bin created in 2004
year
entrepreneur
programmer and
a second space
a tourist on the ground
Mark shuffle hard
chief technical
Davin and ubuntu honors
is that it
It is not based on
stable version
packet is a mixture of
test and
unstable it gives
and benefits
plan would cut software
new emblem common
stability, although it is not
much can ubuntu
be recommended
absolute
most people
because this
system is very
popular all over the
the world and in our country
especially forums
Public and other
resources for this
the system simply does not
counted on
Default system
customized
almost everything
and from the need to
users
needed
almost nothing
chip distribution
It is the ability
connection
additional
custom
repository or
staff picket arch
abbreviated Now
which often
located either
fresher or
software which is not
staff repositories
so programs
here most accessible
a great many
itself has ubuntu
GUI
unity that many
It may not seem
but convenience
there are so
called
derivatives corner
which is used
the same basic
system but different
skins
and a set of standard
programs for
contemporary
computer perfectly
suitable ubuntu ubuntu gnome
or for kubuntu
an old
computer or
weak laptop su
ubuntu rebellion or motel
ubuntu ubuntu release 1604
categories are
he term a support
or lts meaning in
with the long-term
support
which will
carried out until 2021
year in ubuntu there
very convenient
graphic
program managers and
drivers
allowing
set all
necessary in 1 click
net may be
lack of
default
multimedia codecs
but they can
set right in
installation time
system if this
currently connected
Internet in general
system for Wenger
put
and work is also worth
mention that ubuntu
is the official
Sands and whether you
we recommend us
dissolved in developers
steam service game
services gog.com
for desktops
following
distribution according to
many users
It is best for
simple home
use that
turn is
main recommendations
optionally
distribution for
novice in Linux
we are talking about linux mime
called the tree
bodies debian Kojima
ubuntu is impossible
min is ubuntu but a little
salt First
here you will not find
GUIs
because of unity and gnome
According to the developers
mind they are uncomfortable and
ridiculous instead
mother offered and
Cinnamon
xfce and codes and key
design of these
stylized skins
even under windows
the user has been
it is easier to learn a new
part of system
distribution has
many utilities from
developers min
own comfortable
update manager
which have
the ability to easily
Hydra does not update
less comfortable
program manager
utility for
formatting
bootable
flash drives have utility
for firewall management
various applications
everyday
use and
much more
linux mint 18 release
based on ubuntu 16.4
therefore has
make the same
versions of the components
it is less
the new issue was
lack of
default
Multimedia codecs
what was once one
of its main features but
they are also very easy to
set the other
a feature distribution
is a regular
update
graphic
model of shells
another 2 just
develops
developers mind
if you are rebelling
version does not change
throughout
lifecycle
system if you
certainly not
Peppe and use
with newer versions
in the mines themselves
developers you
Apartments |
ranging from -17 System
I moved to a new
develop a model
now used
a stable phase
Based on the map
release of ubuntu
and of the new rebellion in
transferred to fresh
Some versions of the kernel
graphic programs
drivers and other
proceeding from this mind 18.1
It will be based on ubuntu 16
10 minutes 18.2 on board 1704
and so on this
system can be
recommend to all
all handle any
a housewife
but we can not
mentioned projects
Verdi
linux and no kids
over which
as is clear from
name ubuntu ear
basis is replaced by
actually issue rentals
debian is barely 8 per se
is what he is
veganism always
fresh model
truths he also have
consisting of several
utilities on the project linux
so the choice of mint
becomes even more
wide linux mint more
a worthy replacement
windows fedora
distribution of
the other camp
it uses other
RPN packet format
other build system
and developed in
as a test
ground for
corporate red hat
enterprise linux which, incidentally,
It does not prevent him from having
its share of the
desktops simple
users
Fedor remarkable
the freshness of all that
It is precisely in it
often appear
new technologies
which then migrate
other distributions
linux fedora on the cutting edge
It is in progress
It appeared Gnome 3
system manager
sound systems did
pulseaudio server and more
other
Of course, such
packages are not fresh
guarantees
stability and
system in force
various patent
restrictions they Fedor
involved
some technologies
such as a deadlock
strong anti-aliasing
multimedia fonts
codecs as well as
Easy installation
proprietary
components such as
driver problem
solved connection
a pair of very fit
repositories of
as a fusion either RPN
using
Russian assembly Rushen
fedora remix that
aside more willing
to use
official
graphic
environment which
Gnome 3 is here
he prepared
maximally
qualitatively
developers wine
first implemented
almost complete
support
graphic
subsystem veylan
going to change
very outdated xor
Fedor 25 planned
use the output
Default Martians
available to him
login screen
system
but it runs until
only free
video drivers
owners of laptops
with intel hd graphics should
like extremely vlf
Useful stuff
Of course in addition to the
head available
options and other
graphic
containment system
fast convenient for her
there are many programs
inaccessible
other distributions
linux for example 3d
Editor May Invision
delivered only
CVL packages for red hat
Jesus distributions
the fedora can
it is recommend
users and
which is increasingly important
freshness and programs
latest technology
ling than
man heat stability
this distribution
based on archlinux
popular
experienced distribution
Linus users and
accordingly he
it has all the features and
it is possible
possible freshness
Away
any patches to it
it has both pros
and simple and cons
smart package
manager pakman and
a huge collection
software
supported
community
special are used
repository
abbreviated aura
but if he archa
Because of its freshness
lack of
stabilization
patches and small
test can
easily fall apart
after updating the
packages major'a
pass
additional
week stage
testing
repositories example
supplied
several versions of the hydra
Linus order pair with
long
support for the latest
stable and test
versions of the most
freshest food for
manage the entire
last software
used
pakman package manager
for which there
bomzhara there are already two
graphic
interfaces
the composition is delivered
a lot of useful software
there is even a game
steam client
and there
opportunity
use his
TRIMS runtime and
native components
distribution
decor
interface also
very high quality
not officially
assemblies are
major'a their heart and
hole but community
supported
all the assembly
existing in
graphic nature
environments and
window managers
since rollin in Arch
distribution that is
the process being
constant
update releases at
man has no heat
release is not
periodically cut
repository
distribution
I cook with a large
he care
It works perfectly
tank which may well
conclude harvesting
such as laptops
with hybrid graphics
well of course
the price paid for it all
stability of the system
if you do it the
bulbs but need
very fresh
this is your program
choice of getting used to man
heat, you can easily
You will be able to deliver and
use
original archlinux
the more so in
development will
very cool
documentation
wiki engine
this is perhaps all
As you can see life without
windows are not just
perhaps
it's even better
alternatives are very
and there is always a lot
selection of good luck in
the development of new systems
greetings and salutations thanks for
clicking on the video today we're going
to talk about the Linux file system this
is not a comprehensive video and
hopefully it will but not be very
technical this is just for anybody who
is curious about what is different with
the Linux UNIX file system compared to
like what you might be used to working
with in Windows or Macintosh or other
devices and it does have its
idiosyncrasies mainly because of the
fact that the Linux file system comes
from UNIX and unix-like that filled up a
whole room and had hundreds of users
attached to them and all sorts of
different storage all over the place and
tape drives and things like that
so we're using this system today on our
little laptops in our little desktops
that have maybe one or two hard drives
in them but we still get all the
functionality for these big gargantuan
systems of years ago and the first thing
that I guess we need to do is clear up
just a little bit of confusion we need
to define the word file system in the
sense that we're talking about it today
because there are two meanings to that
word file system can refer to the format
that you put on a hard drive the way the
hard drive itself actually stores files
and you'll hear people say well I had to
format the hard drive and install a new
file system in Windows
there are file systems like fat32 and
NTFS and Linux there are a number of
file systems the de-facto is ext4 but
there's ext3 and ext2 and JFS and XFS
and butter FS and many more to choose
from the average user though really
doesn't care about what file system is
being used on their hard drive as long
as it works and ext4 is one of the most
stable and best in the world so it's a
good de facto choice
today what we're talking about is a file
system in the sense of how an individual
computer organizes data where it stores
it and how it keeps up with where it is
so we're looking at a diagram here of a
basic file system for a Linux machine
and all of the different folders or
directories that appear if you're
working at a command line we call them
directories because the directory is
actually a file that holds a bunch of
addresses for other files in computer
science class they compared those two
file folders that held more files that
was the common way it was taught so
therefore when gooeys came along the
graphic user environments with file
managers directories were represented by
file folders so today we actually call
them folders they're interchangeable all
right so now that we have our
nomenclature all figured out let's get
into this oh we have another one here
that's a dual meaning to talk about and
that is the root of the filesystem
not to be confused with the root user
who is the one person on a linux or unix
system who has complete control over the
system okay in this case we're talking
about the root of the filesystem the
base the start the top the beginning and
it is represented by a single slash now
under here you'll see all of these
different directories and folders and
all this other stuff and the entire
computer is in here because in Linux and
UNIX everything is represented by a file
or a folder every device on your
computer is represented by a file or a
folder your hard drives your display
your keyboard your everything is
actually represented by a file or a
folder also you can have numerous hard
drives hooked up to a Linux computer and
you're going to notice immediately there
are no A's B's C's Indies in Windows you
can have more than one partition on one
physical drive and that
be put it you know is different drives
on the machine
ABCD whatever in Linux and UNIX what you
do is you mount that hard drive in a
folder somewhere an empty folder so it
could appear anywhere in the filesystem
and you could have as many hard drives
as you want it you can also take Network
shares and mount them to the filesystem
in different folders and that way
you don't care where the data is coming
from all you care is that you have
access to it
that's called a few skatin and it makes
sense when you have very complex systems
so let's actually take a look at some of
the folders that you will find on your
computer and to do that I'm going to
open up a actual file manager here in
this case since we're using a boom tube
it's called files or Nautilus is the
actual name of the program that does
this and we're in our home folder and we
see our typical folders and you see that
I've created some more folders in here
and if you want to see all of the files
that are on the system and a boon to you
have an entry down here it says computer
and now lets me see pretty much the same
thing that we're seeing here with a few
added things so let's go ahead and take
a look in here and talk about a few of
these folders I'm not going to get too
deep into this I'm just going to point
out some of the ones that are the more
important ones then stands for binary
this is where all of the programs live
on the machine or most of them the boot
folder is actually where all of the
files live that the kernel needs to boot
the machine and your boot loader lives
here as well that is a system folder you
don't have access to cd-rom is from the
early days of when you had cd-rom
devices on computers and this is where
somebody could find the cd-rom when they
plopped a CD into it this is now
basically just a legacy folder that's
left in here for compatibility because
your DVD drives and CD drives and
everything show up in the media folder
these days
dev is all of the devices on the
computer remember everything like your
keyboard your mouse whatever is
represented by a file or a folder so
this is where they are there's an
important folder which is etc' this
holds all sorts of configuration files
for the system and sometimes you
actually have to go in here and find a
file and change something in it and this
is ye Etsy is important also
it's the etc directory but people call
it Etsy or et Cie the home folder which
in this case is an example of a hard
drive that is mounted to the system all
of the stuff in the home folder actually
lives in a separate drive on this
particular system although you can't
tell by looking in the file system and
this is where all of the users files
live in their home directories ok and
this is where it comes up by default it
will open up when you open a file
manager and you're logged into your
account that's where you are when you
open a terminal you are automatically in
your home folder Lib and live 64 are
where libraries live they are like DLLs
in windows and it's basically
information that programs use on the
computer for programs can use the same
library so therefore they're stored
separately the media folder is very
important with the aboon to desktop and
gnome desktop and many of the other
modern linux desktops because here is
where when you plug in a USB Drive this
is where it's going to show up it's
going to automatically mount itself in
media anything that mounts and media oh
I didn't mean to do that
anything that mounts in media will show
up on your desktop or over here in your
- as a drive for instance I have a hard
drive that is on this machine that
automatically mounts its start up and it
shows up here and it's mounted in the
media directory get back to where it was
please thank you optional
opt directory is where some programs are
stored like for instance here we have
Google Chrome and TeamViewer which are
proprietary programs available for Linux
this is where a lot of those go and it's
just optional software of course the
temp directory is the same thing as TMP
stands for temporary and that's where
temporary files are stored usually that
directory is cleared out when you reboot
your system or you can use programs to
clean that out by the way everything
except the home folder here you have to
have administrator privileges to access
we're allowed to look but we can't touch
unless we actually have administrator
privileges to do so another important
folder is var this is where a lot of
logs and temporary files for the system
are stored this is variable data and
you'll find all kinds of stuff in here
like caches backups just all kinds of
stuff goes into the var directory some
administrators actually choose to put
that on a separate partition on the hard
drive as well
spen is more binaries usually used by
the system so here's where a lot of your
commands live the root folder remember
we have the root of the filesystem which
is represented by the flat slash and
then we have the root folder this is
where the root user's home directory is
so if you actually have a root user
account activated on your Linux system
this is where you would find all of the
root users stuff that would be in the
home directory this temp let's see
there's anything else in here to talk
about SRV universal system resources
sometimes things like icons for your
desktop or stored here all kinds of
crazy things that the desktop uses or
other programs use that can be used by
many different users on the computer end
up in there sometimes you'll hear
somebody say go look in the USR folder
the user some people
say that's the user folder it's not it's
Universal system resources so there's a
quick look around the file system mainly
you're going to be working in your home
folder that's where you're going to be
all the time unless you have to do
something else to the system you're
trying to customize it you're trying to
modify it or troubleshoot a problem
working in the file system is actually
quite easy and we're going to do this
with the GUI you can do all of this with
the terminal there are commands but I'm
not going to do any of it with a command
today to prove a point because one of
the common misconceptions about Linux is
is that all you got to open a terminal
all the time to do everything no you
don't I mean some things you do but some
things you have to do that in Windows
and Mac too so we're going to work here
in the terminal and I created a new
folder it says untitled folder at this
point and I'm going to give it a new
file name I'm going to give it something
creative like junk because we're just
going to create some files to play
around with and we'll open that up and
we have a nice empty folder to create
new files simply right-click and choose
new document and it will create an empty
file we're going to call this one test
and there you go now one of the
interesting things about the Linux file
system is that it is case sensitive in
other words a lower case T and an upper
case T are different so therefore I can
create a file that looks like this
and as you can see it pops right up it
exists I can keep that going let's
create another one this presents
problems when you're sharing files with
a Windows file system because the
Windows File system is not
case-sensitive
it doesn't really care now they do have
an extension that allows you to name
files with upper and lower case letters
so it shows up in the GUI and all that
other stuff but if you tried to send
these files to a Windows file system it
would get confused and it would do all
kinds of goofiness so keep this in mind
if you're creating files that will end
up on a Windows filesystem to rename a
file all we do is press f2 and then we
can do that we can also choose it from
the menu so we're going to call this one
test one and let's see we're going to
rename the file and this time around
I'll choose it from the menu to show you
that it does the same thing test two Oh
actually I'm going to rename that again
because I call it guest why didn't
anybody tell me I did that gee thank you
now we don't look like so much of an
idiot alright so we have our three files
another thing that you need to
understand about the Linux file system
is how it will actually hide a file so
if we go back into our home folder let's
go back into home here we see that we
have these folders but you may know that
all of your system settings and
everything about your particular account
live in this folder so where is it well
let me show you where it is if I use the
ctrl key and the letter H I am now
looking at hidden files in Linux
files are hidden by placing a dot in
front of the file name so if you want to
create a file and you don't want it to
be automatically seen this is how you
would do it so we have all of this stuff
in here
outside of the folders that we normally
see and these files contain
configuration files mainly so if I open
this and we take a look at it which is a
configuration file for a program called
asunder which is a CD music Ripper you
see this is where all of that
configuration is if you know what you're
doing you can edit this file and then
you can change the configuration without
using a GUI and sometimes that is a cool
way to do things also here's the picture
for my account that's here and let's see
what else is in here that we can look at
bash history is an important file we
will open that with let's do this with
actually I'm going to do it G edit thank
you that's a little bit lighter weight
and application and you can see here
this contains a list of all of the
commands that I have ever typed into the
terminal when I was working on the
computer so I have access to those and
in the terminal itself to access a list
of the commands that I have used then
all I do is use the arrow keys to go up
and there you go so that's where that is
stored so all of this information lives
in here so let's go back to our junk
folder and let's go ahead and hide the
file the first file here I'm going to f2
to change its name and we're going to
retype it with a I'll just call it dot
hide you have renamed the file
sometimes you have to do this twice to
get it to take and this is actually
something that's easier to do in the
terminal kind of like you have to do it
twice so the system knows that you
really mean it alright in a moment here
that file is just simply going to
disappear we won't see it because we
started it if I jump back out here and
then go back in you'll see well now it's
gone to see it again control H and there
is the file so this is how you would
create a hidden file or folder now samba
which is a program that allows you to
share files with Windows machines will
actually interpret this and it can I
don't know whether this is on by default
but if you put a file on your Windows
machine it will set the hidden attribute
so it tries to keep the different
attributes of the files the same which
can cause even more confusion so if
you're moving a hidden file over to a
Windows machine and you see it just
disappears that means that in Windows
the hidden attribute on the file was
actually set when Samba transferred it
over of course having all these
different file names that can have the
same text or the same capitals and mixed
cases in Linux does present a problem in
Windows as well I think I've already
mentioned that ok so we have learned
about what files are and how to name
them and of course everything else is
pretty straightforward if you're working
in the graphic user environment if you
want to move a file I'm going to put it
out on the desktop and drag it and then
there it goes and that sort of thing
that's all pretty simple and
straightforward now if we move a file
between two drives we might not know
because of the way that the Linux system
office gates the different partitions on
a hard drive are different physical
devices and if we move from one
partition to another we're going to copy
the file and not move it so if you do
that and you see that happen and you go
well the file thought I was moving it
then that's why in this case when I move
this file out to the
Desktop like this then we're actually
just moving it from one directory or
folder to another I will show you one
terminal command because it is extremely
useful and it's one that you can get a
lot of use out of if you're managing
files on the system and this is going to
be the one I'm going to hold myself to
and that is I'm going to show you the
touch command so let's first of all go
to the directory that we're playing
around in which is junk
this little Tildy here represents my
home directory so it lets me know that I
am in home so if I want to go back to
home I can always do CD and then a Tildy
like so and then it'll automatically
take me back to my home directory if you
want to know what director you're
working in present just type in present
working directory or print working
directory PWD and it'll tell you and it
tells me I'm in home so anyway and like
I said we can go back and get files get
commands by just doing that anyhow so
let me show you this command I'm in the
junk folder so we're going to use touch
to create a bunch of files and we'll
call it file1 file2 file 3l or ok so I'm
just going to create a whole bunch of
files and they showed up here now what
what good is the touch command well it
does the same thing as right-clicking
and choosing create empty document okay
so it'll create an empty file I don't
even know what to call this one at this
point
who cares but it will do it in batches
so that's kind of cool if you use the
touch command against a file that
already exists on the system then it
will change the modification date of
that file so that can be very useful
when you want to backup a whole
directory of files you want to make sure
that the backup program says ok this is
changed and I need to make a copy of it
that's how you can do it is using the
touch command the touch command can also
be used to create flag files which means
that it's a file with a certain name
that tells the system to do something
when the system sees it so it can be a
very useful little command and that's
the only one I'm going to show you
alright since we were creating files I
thought about it now the next thing we
need to talk about is file permissions
before we wrap this video up because
this is very important in Linux to get
through it to get to it through the GUI
we would go to properties out of the
drop down menu there and then we would
choose file permissions I created the
file so therefore I own the file I am
the owner I have since I am the owner
complete access I may read and write
this file people who are in my group my
group is called Joe if I should choose
to include other users on the system in
that group they will have access to the
file and they will be able to read and
write it as well others this is anybody
that can see the files on the system
they can only see it they can only read
it and in this case this means that they
can do nothing with it it's just that
they can see it now if this is a file
that contains private information and I
want to be the only person who actually
can see it then I can change these
permissions to none which means that I'm
the only person and if I'm so paranoid
that I myself don't even want to write
to the file I can change it to read-only
down here if this will allow me to
execute the file is a program which
means that when I click on it the system
will try and actually run the profile as
a program this is useful if you're
creating script files in other words you
are writing your own little programs to
tell the computer to do different things
you would create the file and then you
would give it executable status here and
when you did that that would mean that
if you ran it in a terminal or clicked
on it that it would actually run so
those are what the permissions mean you
can screw up the permissions in such a
way that you can give nobody access and
if that happens then you'll have to log
in as the super user to delete
everything that's in the system or all
of those files on everything that's in
the system why would you want to do that
and you just blew up the whole town man
nothing works now bang you have to
reinstall okay so about to wrap this
video up I think I think I've pretty
much covered all of the basic stuff here
and all of the differences between the
Linux file system and the other file
systems out there go ahead and make it
so we can't see the files and then we
are going to remove this directory and
get back to normal so I hope that was an
interesting introduction I know that I
have left a great deal of stuff out but
it gives you a basic idea of how the
Linux file system works and most of it
is the same as what you're dealing with
but there are some differences that
every now and then again you run across
you go huh what was that all about so
thank you for watching the video love to
hear from you
comments are always welcome and don't
forget to check out the link below to
easy Linux comm if you want me to help
you get started with Linux and get off
on the right foot and have a good
experience with the Linux system thanks
for watching
you use Lenox every day whether you know
it or not over 850,000 Android phones
running Linux are activated every single
day compare that to just 30,000 windows
phones according to the latest reports
that means 100 Android devices have come
online just since you started watching
this video
nearly 700,000 TVs are sold every day
most of which are running Linux 8 out of
10 financial trades are powered by
lennox 9 out of 10 of the world's
supercomputers run Linux Google Twitter
Facebook and Amazon are all powered by
Linux so how is Linux developed to
achieve all of this unlike other
operating systems like Windows or iOS
Linux is built collaboratively across
companies geographies and markets
resulting in the largest collaborative
development project in the history of
computing just since 2005 about 8,000
developers from almost 800 companies
have contributed to the Linux kernel
these contributions have resulted in 15
million lines of code 1.5 million lines
written in just the last couple of years
consider that Homer's epic Iliad poem is
a mere 15 thousand lines of text the
novel war and peace just five hundred
sixty thousand words but it's not just
about the sheer number of lines of code
it's also about how quickly Linux is
developed and released for example a
major new kernel comes out every two to
three months compare this two years for
competing operating systems this is made
possible by a unique collaborative
development process when submitting code
to the Linux kernel developers break
changes into individual units called
patches a patch describes the lines that
need to be changed added or removed from
the source code each patch can add a new
feature new support for a device fix a
problem improve
formitz or rework things to be more
easily understood developers post their
patches to the relevant mailing lists
where other developers can reply with
feedback when the patch is close to
being release ready it is accepted by a
senior Linux kernel developer or
maintainer who manages one or more of
100 different sections of the kernel
well this isn't a guarantee that it will
go to the main line it's certainly a
good sign
here it gets an even more extensive
evaluation when the maintainer finishes
their review he or she will sign off on
the patch and send it on to Linux
creator and Linux foundation fellow
leanest Torvalds who has the ultimate
authority on what is accepted into the
next release and what is not nearly
10,000 patches go into almost every new
release about 6 patches are applied to
the kernel each hour Linux is rate of
development is simply unmatched today
Linux is dominating on mobile devices in
the enterprise and web infrastructure
data centers supercomputing and more
what's next because together we're ready
you
OK. Not that what we do 90% of the time on Linux
I was busy writing for this Alawamrlontbh
WannaCry
Good joke. I'm on Linux
What?!
What software as the Linux!
I think nothing remains for saying
OK
The fact that there is a lot to be said
First. This only works when you have
Wine or layer compatibility with windows, mounted
Second. The gap revealed by the spread of WannaCry
No it is on Linux, you should get the sample in another way
I want to take this opportunity to convey something very important
Each one excited to switch to Linux for security reasons or whatever
OK. Phishing mode on Linux programs are not such as bad windows
I do not think one will be different on that
But the way people tell her misleading
There are no ransom virus on Linux! I do not think you're going to say this only if you live in the Stone Age
There are several ransom viruses targeting Linux
There are KillDesk requesting high amount apropos higher than that in the windows virus
There is also a virus TunnelFather
The only reason that people did not believe that Linux is never insecure
It's because they consider it only a system for desktop computers
Which incidentally is the only region in this area, which did not penetrate much
Linux is basically a system for servers sites
Example, most of the online works in Linux
So whenever I heard about the site was breached or was exposed to a virus ransom
The site was stolen or published data
All of these were security problems on Linux
Do not tell me that Linux has no security problems
To be honest, it is not because it is more than a system that hackers are trying to hack in order to exploit
Again, I'm really Mansdm than many people believe this in my videos
Because they're watching TPIC to be made aware of these things well
After all, we are not Bbaidyn disaster MIRAI
And guess what! It was worse than WannaCry virus
Did you know and what is the system that has been affected mainly? It's Linux!
Ask any official about Linux systems how much they have to worry to protect their
And that you who publish Linux Linux Linux may be a little surprised!
If the fact that you think that Linux is immune from the security services Kaleidoscope
And I windows is that it deals with this thou really do not have an idea about Linux
Rather than publish (go to Linux, go to Linux)
(Linux has no security problems, Linux is immune to) just forget it
To be clear, I'm attracted to Linux and open source, and those things
But this is not a logical argument, ordered him Fansy
And this is what I wanted to say. I hope that you liked the video. This channel Liu Computer protect
And as usual, stay conscious, stay protected
Whether you're on Linux or Windows
this Epsilon Duke show is brought to you
by system76 and why would I talk about
system76 when I can show you some of the
hardware you can buy from system76
specifically their laptops because I
love that you can buy laptops from a
company that is preloaded with Linux and
that's literally all they offer you can
call them up and say can I get the servo
workstation laptop running Windows and
they will tell you you can buy it and
you can put Windows on it but why the
hell would you want that but look at
this beautiful guy core 7 desktop CPUs
in a laptop that's how you do it suckers
this is desktop and a laptop that's
living you can get find out more over at
system76 comm and Pogo Linux check this
out check this out let's goods come
right come right back to this here
alright check it out check it out let's
say you want a server say you want a
server go over here let's go check out
storage servers oh my god these guys
have storage service seriously this is
the best hardware porn site on the whole
planet
I want a storage server that has 4
terabytes of RAM yes yes I do seriously
I don't have that much hard drive space
that is so much friggin RAM this is the
atlas 2 to 3 - 12 which the thing I love
just as a straight side know about Pogo
Linux is all of the names sound like
code names of sci-fi projects which I
think it's just fantastic
but seriously AMD epic CPUs 4 terabytes
of RAM you could make the biggest Ram
disk out of that and they have so many
servers like this you can find up over
at politics.com and of course viewers
like you
all of these viewers look at all these
viewers these are all the top 2 your
supporters of this show you guys are
insane and wonderful and I love you all
so very much
and that guy sitting next to me is bad
art Lee this is Matt Hartley say hello
to everyone Matt Hartley hello that
wasn't a mr. hankey voice normally you
hop in and you straight up mister you I
do I do like it when mr. Hankey goes
through puberty Matt oh my gosh we're
finally back on a regular thing last
week it was the we did the live the big
24 hour livestream that left me mildly
delirious and this week then for the
rest of the week we were all off and
then
you had you had doggies that needed love
and support and all sorts of things and
we've just been busy so now this is the
first time that we're doing Linux
Thursday actually on a friggin Thursday
it feels so good yes I love it so much
how you been man what do you been up to
busy lot of stuff going on but not all
bad so a shoe for too busy but not all
bad good alright for those tuning in for
the first time and there's a bunch of
new people around here that have kind of
come on board recently this is what we
do here we talk about linux related
stuff and you get to choose what we talk
about I asked over on Twitter and masses
down a whole bunch people hey what do
you want us to talk about got any
questions for us
and then they tell us hey here's my
questions and then literally I come in
and I read the questions and then we
mouth off about them it's really
fantastic it's it's a recipe for pure
magic is what it is all right let's dive
into this here let's start over on
Twitter because who doesn't want to
start over on Twitter the first question
and I thought this was a pretty good one
this one came from lost hair man I don't
know how to say that name but what the
heck
last camera asks how to integrate an
Android phone to my desktop Linux
machine have you do that often do you
actually do any like connect so there's
a couple different ways to go about it I
mean it really depends on what level you
want to do it honestly the easiest way
to do any of that stuff is cloud-based
whether you do that yourself or through
a managed service or whatever you want
to do and by cloud-based you can manage
your own cloud you don't have to go to a
third-party provider that's fine the
most obnoxious way to try and do it is
locally on you can do that just way to
do it yeah I mean you know if I want to
keep it simple and you just want to do
like just let's just say you want to
sync music I mean you can do an SD card
and then use the media player of your
choice to mount that and go that route
but you know I mean you know the 90s
called and they want their palms back so
I mean yeah I I just I honestly say roll
your own cloud or no the managed service
that's how I would do it man
with my friend while you are beautiful
and I wish to snuggle with you
everything you just said is entirely
wrong here's what you do
hey de connect and there's ya lady
connect is rad okay
for those of you who aren't familiar
with it just just go go DuckDuckGo comm
search for KDE space connect so what it
lets you do I can't bring it up here on
the screen so I got all my other screens
configured but basically I'll read this
here KDE connect is a project to
communicate across all your devices for
example with Katy connect you can
receive your phone notifications on your
desktop computer control music playing
on your phone from your desktop or use
your phone as a remote control for your
desktop there's also a look around the
Katy size a whole lot of other
functionality that goes along with it so
if you want to move files around it's
great I want to say that there was a
functionality to do something with
contacts as well but usually do quite a
quite a lot with KDE connect um I don't
tend to use KDE all that much but KDE
connect is awesome
and Katy and live as a pretty fantastic
video editor so they do have some really
great projects over there and I don't
think you need to be really running the
KDE desktop to get and these some of the
functionality from Katy connect it is a
good way to go well and there's an
alternate I misunderstood what they
meant by integrate you can also go Lin
connect which is also Android Android
yeah that's just a script you run and
then just auto start and it doesn't care
what desktop you run you will want to
really toggle out all the different
things you don't wanna be alerted to cuz
otherwise it will just blow up all day
right kind of obnoxious AirDroid is
another one if you want to actually
emulate your Android experience on your
desktop you can do so from a browser and
basically this runs a little local
server on your phone that's another
option you can shoot for but yeah you
know those those are definitely options
for sure definitely options alright so
things there you go there are some
availability there that's good way to go
honestly I don't really do any of those
very much because I I kind of hate that
I have a cell phone so I try to keep it
like a separate weird isolated part of
my life whether most people I know are
not like me in that regard so you
probably want to look at Katie connector
link
or something like that oh let's get this
out of the way really briefly so we can
just focus everything on linux e stuff
couple of people people have asked me if
there's any update from mozilla on some
of the mud solution arrogance over the
last couple of days I know there is not
I have not heard back from Mozilla near
as I can tell no journalist or Reporter
has heard back from it so uh at all
which is weird I don't really know what
to do about that problem afraid you're
gonna go out and join their freakin Club
or something I mean that's around the
dinosaurhead and all this nonsense no
it's hard to say you know they may just
I don't know sir III really genuinely
don't know it's it's been totally quiet
I've reached out to rise up to Mozilla
though right so it's kind of hard to
reach out to if you don't know much
about rise up if you go to rise up
dotnet and look at the about Us page
there's no human beings its Birds their
pseudonyms or our birds like there's one
one person to bluejay one person's like
a robin redbreast like it's just it's
just Birds and those are there those are
there like pseudonym online it makes it
hard to comment but we'll use Battlestar
Galactica references but clearly you
know you could be like I'll be like
Cylon slash Starbuck oh oh oh oh oh I
want to be I want to be the monkey I
want to be the monkey and a robot dog
suit that's what I want to be yeah
that's what I want to be um anyway so no
no no word back from them I'll continue
following up with them I offered Mozilla
to if they wanted to provide a written
statement
I'll read it verbatim online and publish
it for them without any editing I
offered them to come on the show and
just speak for as long as they wanted
even without me interrupting which is
hard for me to do no matter what but I'm
willing I haven't heard anything so you
know you know you try you reach out you
do what you can you go home happy let's
talk about more Linux stuff Linux all
right roshambo asks if I wanted to get
just a calendar app No
freaking male sweet like Thunderbird
connected to office 365 calendar ooh
which app would you use I don't know
I've never used office 365 I don't know
no clue I mean like a dedicated calendar
app I couldn't tell you I use I use
lightning and thunder brute myself if
I'm gonna go that route so that's just
me yeah you know I know there are other
options out there you might honestly is
one of the things that's really hard to
recommend I think you're better off
going to like alternative to and then
just putting in whatever you know your
calendar for example and then seeing
what's available for lives because there
are a number of options out there
there's a lot of locally installed
summer server II like local LAN server
base summer you know I use Cal curses
for from of my calendaring which is
great because it's not syncing it up to
literally anything I'm the most offline
person that is a nerd thats remaining it
actually stores all of all of like my
appointments and calendar items as plain
text files and I point to them and then
i sync that up to my next cloud instance
so it's on my all my devices and then i
kind of point it Cal curses to that so
I'm in the terminal which is great I'm
not doing like a FTP in clear-text to do
cities that's what I've been doing yeah
you have to pretty much everything I
missed geo cities so many animated gifs
yeah this is kind of an interesting
question all right it's a four-part
tweet so here we go arts this is at
technical raw over on Twitter the Foss
community tends to favor natural
selection the natural selection takes
its course when multiple inflammations
exist in certain software given that
gnome and KDE as an example have been in
existence for approximately 20 years is
this approach working well I guess I'll
just cut that short right there he has a
few other questions too piled onto it
okay I totally understand the delicious
and creamy by dairy old basically what
he's saying is within Priest
we're an open-source we kind of let
natural selection take its course when
we're talking about most of these big
software projects so if we have like
desktop environments we'll have many
different desktop environments sometimes
reinventing the same wheel sometimes
coming up with new kinds of wheels but
always just kind of existing in parallel
and then we let natural selection and
market forces can we determine what
survives is that approach working
considering that gnome KB and many
others have been around for you know 20
plus years at this point is that a
problem or is that a sign that it's
working I think it's part of the freedom
aspect I think it's part of the fact
that it's community center in that
rather than having some you know cabal
dictate you know what's gonna succeed
what's gonna fail and we know best it
really is the community at work and if
we call that natural selection I guess
that you know the community certainly
makes up a component or that so those
that maintain obviously have a following
and even some of those that don't
maintain they still have a following at
some level you know there's a lot of
stuff that's lesser-used that is still
out there has a group of people that are
really passionate about using it same
things true of Linux distributions is
all not just desktop environments and
experiences so you know that's just my
view on it no I kind of agree with met
on that one my opinion it's yeah it's
it's it's working you know it's this is
how it's supposed to be and I I don't
really think there needs to be at the
end of any period of time a winner when
we're talking about these sorts of
projects in fact I'd rather there not be
it it's kind of like when we talk about
market fragmentation of Linux
distributions and it's a good point to
make that there's a billion friggin
Linux distributions we probably don't
need that many but I'm glad there's
multiple you know the exact that we have
many come both competing with each other
and in many cases working with each
other to make each other better I think
that's cool it kind of it kind of keeps
us in check and make sure that Linux as
a desktop system works for as many
people as possible going forward and I
think that overall is a win-win for
everybody
so yeah it's working yeah III completely
that's exactly how I feel about I think
it's a it's a model that's worked for
all these years and I think that's part
of the longevity and kind of the
gravitational pull toward always going
forward I think it challenges desktops
to to try new things to try the KT KDE
connects and things like that to
differentiate themselves from other from
other desktop environments sometimes
it's an appearance thing sometimes it's
a feature thing but it's always kind of
finding your groove yeah right you gotta
find your groove you got to find that
butt groove get in that buck roof and
live there live in that groove that's
how it works with mostly the bud have
you looked into Katie's new vault thing
their vaults no I try not to look at
Katie too often it's a little bit like
looking at the Sun it's really awesome
and bright and warm but if it'll scar
your retinas if you stare chill on out
Katie has a new vault system for keeping
your like files you're working on right
now isolated from each other and
encrypted so you can drop in and say
like I have a I'm at work vault put put
my stuff I'm working on all in that
vault so you could have like a here's my
virtual desktop over here with all my
files for that and I just pop it open
and encrypt it in a folder I haven't
actually tried it out yet but I figure
anything that helps to keep your data
secure and encrypted while at the same
time making easier is good I don't know
how effective and usable their solution
is because I haven't tried it yet but
I'm glad they're working on something I
know a neat idea I guess I would need to
see it in practice or see it
demonstrated more clear than maybe a
YouTube video tour or something like
that wrong with it I'm trying to
remember when this was Aaron's saigo
used to be you know the bigwig over at
KD many many years back and then he was
over at collab and whatnot but I had a
conversation with Aaron saigo many years
ago when they were working on the
Vivaldi tabla remember that the KDE
powered plasma tablet right and one of
the things that they were talking about
was was a variation on this feature I
think it might have even still been
called vaults back then where was the
same idea so you could say okay I'm at
work go to my work vault and now I'm in
my work fault it's very the files are
isolate
I think even the clipboard if I remember
right from that conversation which was
years ago was supposed to be isolated
from like your personal stuff so like
you can move to between virtual desktops
and that's your work system kind of now
and it's all encrypted and not no access
to the other one and I think there was
some that sounds there was some some
value in use to that again I haven't
tried it out though I think it's worth
looking at and honestly I really should
install it try it out and kick the tires
a little bit cuz it's kinda you know
yeah and I think of it you know
something that's functional and useful
to people then perhaps it needs to be
moved over to other desktop environments
and different incarnations you know it'd
be kind of cool yeah right right
bingo Michael over on Twitter asks what
are your thoughts on cubes OS qub yes
have you used that's what I see right
cubes okay cubes q isn't like cuber
cubes
gotcha yes as in Qbert no I have not ah
all right
idea behind cubes basic idea behind
cubes and cubes is very very cool it is
it's all about privacy and security for
for your data everything is running in
isolated virtual machines basically so
they're I don't know if virtual machines
is the right word when instances is
probably what not yeah
but each individual application is run
in such a way that none of them have
access to the others or the main system
itself and so everything is very
isolated so if you have a a you know
website that goes all wonky or some
application that you're running that
tries to get access everywhere you know
sandboxes containers whatever word you
want to use for here it can't which is
nice so the more you secure your system
that way the better obviously there's a
lot of overhead because right yeah well
he have one of those logo servers you
don't care yeah cubes OS I recommend
getting the part the Pogo well what was
it what was it called the Pogo I don't
have it up on my screen any awards like
nice light years of short thanks to you
unit with four terabytes my god you
could read cubes OS just fine on that
but it's really cool i I really like
some of the the security focus Linux
distributions
just rose um specifically I like that
and like tails tails is cool because
it's good you start it up and boom you
start up tour and all of your network
traffic from all of your applications
can then be easily routed through tour
and by default it's only loaded up with
software that the distro feels is you
know fairly secure and and it's kind of
meant to be an easy system to load up on
like a piece of live media but then when
you shut it down
it's everything's wiped out so it's kind
of a fresh clean slate to do some
communication work in with no no like
trail breadcrumb trail for anyone to
follow so it'd be it'd be good for I
don't know if you're a spy
Oh privacy you know yeah yeah I have
loaded up tails on a laptop
I put tails on an old Lenovo laptop I've
got and you know it's not it's not the
most up-to-date distro in the world it's
based on Debian but and it's not the
fastest distro in the world either but
it's focused on security yeah I just
don't feel like you can sneeze at that
that's that's something that's important
and really it's cool but let me walk you
through a use case scenario to where I
think just having a party laptop with a
fresh in splittings installation on a
hard drive that's never been used as a
far better choice let's see it going
through the airport and you happen to be
the lucky contestant on you're gonna get
felt up by a stranger you know when your
PSA line yes it's gonna happen right
when they're not cracking through your
stuff without your permission you want
to make sure that they're not going to
discover something like tails because
you're gonna get it you're gonna get
that extra special treatment after that
versus a brand new laptop that it
literally has nothing of any consequence
on it whatsoever by just merely being in
ownership of something that is perceived
a certain way
you've got you really got to be educated
in what you're getting yourself into at
that point so I think you know it
depends on your venue and depends on
what you're doing and what you're what
you know at home I think that's fine but
I think if you're traveling anywhere
where you're gonna be inspected or
looked upon I think you really have to
noodle that one around mindful of
security but use a little common sense
too so that's just my take can we can we
tv8 for a second yeah something I wanted
to talk about that I think is just rad
beyond words okay in this kind of
dovetail
with getting a new laptop and security
right so a new laptop with an Intel CPU
in it you know that it's got the Intel
management engine in it the IME that
basically is a co processor that runs a
whole bunch of closed source code and no
one can look into it bla bla bla bla bla
it's basically a big giant of potential
backdoor and security vulnerability for
an Intel based system it's an important
right it's a it's a big problem guess
what it's running it's running its own
operating system all the time on this
little coprocessor guess what it's
running just get the SD oh minutes it's
really no joke it's running friggin
MINIX Andrew Tannenbaum the guy that you
know the teacher who famously had that
flame war with with Linus about saying
that Linux is obsolete because of its
style of you know a monolithic kernel
and everything back in 91 92 when they
had that debate he's the the guy behind
MINIX for more or less but yeah MINIX
itself is running on all those
processors you know what that means that
on machines shipping with modern intel
hardware that MINIX is the most used
operating system on that hardware in the
world right that's what that means that
means the early that also means that if
you are running Linux on your desktop
using a I can't remember what the year
was that they started doing this was it
2012 that they started using MINIX and
IME something like that I'm sorry I
don't have that in front of me but from
that point onward if you're booting any
version of linux freebsd anything you're
booting MINIX to boot Linux
that's just relying on Macs for Linux I
think that's awesome
used it's like you got some X in there
so you're doing okay right you got lots
of X going on I just thought that was
crazy because when was the last time you
booted up MINIX trick question today
today you did it today do you have an
Intel CPU yeah oh yeah good point
whatever what year was your in C it's an
i7
20800 booted MINIX yeah maybe new or not
it's some right now both you and I are
running MINIX right now this very second
without even knowing it oh yeah if you
have an AMD processor I don't think they
run Phenix I don't have any proof that
they do or don't but that little that
little super-secret coprocessor on Intel
CPUs it runs MINIX which it's weird I
know having a little coprocessor on
there that runs a bunch of unsigned code
is kind of creepy right like I don't
know but I don't I don't like that but
then I find out that that's running
MINIX makes it seem less bad some like
like it's still the same problems but
it's like well at least it's not like a
custom proprietary OS somehow or another
it makes it better like I can't quite
justify it with my own personal thing
but it technically it kind of makes it
better I guess anyway MINIX is on your
machine right now you had no idea that's
[Laughter]
borislav asks can you guys recommend an
alternative to my iPhone 6 not into
brand or anything or I just want
something that just works is there a
bryanl undo core Matt Hartley blessed
device any the higher and higher end
Android devices are fine there's that
privacy centric thing that someone did a
GoFundMe or whatever the hell it was on
five
I'm totally poking fun of the Libre is
yes that would probably it really just
depends on what your needs are but I
think if you're looking for a non
mainstream phone you know non Android on
iOS that's certainly a good option yeah
but you know if you're looking for
Android I'd say anything higher-end
Android phones are fine Samsung is great
if you really love blow wear I know I
have one there awesome that even that's
a simple mode for if you're too drunk to
remember how to operate it you just you
know tell us it really yeah it's not for
drunk people to actually for like people
that are coming off of iPhones Hey
Samsung man you'll be fine
Abram whatever you get the Libra Maps
stuff and functionality there's a few
days left I think on the labrum for if
you want to get in on that and I think
if you're gonna go winning zone that
would be the way I would that's kind of
that's kind of the way now the other
option actually really go old phone I
mean I mean think about it for a moment
is your concern that you can run the
latest and greatest software and games
on it or is your concern that you have a
privacy respecting Linux powered phone
that you can get nerdy stuff on if you
want to go the super nerdy route go onto
eBay and get an old n900 from Nokia
they're not crazy fast I mean they're
not bad they've got a little slide-out
keyboards they run a version of Debian
you've got a full terminal on there you
can get root access to the device with
just a few keystrokes I mean it's yeah
it's it's a Linux one step further go to
like Aliexpress or whatever it's like
Alibaba Express basically we're single
purchases and get something that will
explode for you pretty awesome I think
there's none of that pesky betting to
make sure it doesn't you know yeah
they're I think really I think Brian's
kind nailed it I mean it just really
depends on what you're looking to get
yeah exactly
I'm into the long lasting battery not
exploding stuff so I think not exploding
is good
yeah I'm pretty big on the non exploding
I think I think you and I can yeah a
Commodore 256 asks like a 256 Commodore
what's your take on the year of Linux
desktop clickbait that happens around
new years it's it's we're in October so
we've got about we've got about a month
and a half before a year of the Linux
desktop 2018 articles start flowing out
do people really think it can change
that much in 365 days what are your
order your thoughts are you planning to
personally write some year of the Linux
desktop clickbait over the next two
months I have I've written oh yeah not
only hammer realize because I will it's
guaranteed
I've actually actually did a video on
why the
concept of it's actually the entire
market share things stupid I did that
unfreedom penguin and and so I took an
alternative approach to it and it
actually it's pretty popular so you can
check that out because I mean at the end
of the day it doesn't really matter
will I be but will I be writing articles
oh absolutely because its clickbait
naturally information right here blinks
blink blink no um
right I mean it's the problem is the
number number one problem is the fact
that you guys will read it and click on
it that's why that's why I keeps coming
about and yeah he's coming about yes I'm
absolutely part of that problem loud and
proud i you know i i'm just i just get
folks with oh no no no no Matt you're
not part of that problem at all neither
am i okay here's what it is no I I
really don't think so
alright so okay those articles are
totally clickbait those videos are
totally clickbait both Matt and I have
written those articles and done those
bodies we've been in this industry for
many years and we have done that and why
have we done that because those are some
of the most read things and in order to
make sponsors and advertisers happy big
websites want those sorts of articles so
if me and Matt sit down and we're like
you know what there's this really good
we could do a really in-depth thorough
analysis of the way systemd
interacts with some of the other system
resources and we could put together
something really beefy and interesting
and you know what it's gonna get like
400 clicks oh seriously it's it's
ridiculous and then but then if we do
give the literature - carbon 2018 is so
big right now great show great
everyone's gonna use it and we'll get
40,000 reads of that article in the
first day it is that it is a night and
day thing it's not because and in the
end people are gonna write those
articles because oh yeah that's what
drives website traffic or those stupid
clickbait tech articles stupid they're
friggin stupid yeah but someone's gonna
write I'll be honest with you they'll
tell you they're not doing it because
they want to exactly
so here's how I look at that
do you want someone writing that article
that doesn't run Linux that's just some
random random tech journalist that
literally knows nothing which there's a
whole bunch of those every year or do
you want someone at the very least who
actually lives in this community like
Matt and I and a few others write those
articles so at least there's a few
sentences of valid and fun information
in it like at the very least you get
that out of it and it's one you guys I
mean this literally and that includes me
and Matt because we click those friggin
links to oh when when we all as a team
stop clicking those links that will go
away suddenly no more articles will
appear and that will be that that's how
it works people also know that whatever
happened
continue to happen every year because
don't ever stop flicking them yeah yeah
it's never gonna happen I think that it
honestly it underlines a bigger point in
that you know we wanted to be near the
desktop so badly that we just you know
that's why I think we keep seeing people
click on this stuff you know I you or I
will do a really helpful how to do a
thing like let's say you set up a
bulletin board someone wants to do it
just really poured your heart and soul
into it you'll get a few interviews then
you do a thing but then you do a thing
on you know something's just click
Beatty and it's gonna just explode it is
frustrating I cannot tell you it is
really it's yeah it's there's a whole
store backstory to that on its own so
yeah you know is it gonna be more of
those absolutely and but most
importantly those that race to it first
and do them every year consistently
begin to become an authority on it and
that's why a lot of times you see some
of the same publishers usually in the
tow every time so you know right now you
know there's just a couple of match we
give people a little a little peek
behind the curtain of some of the Linux
news sites and whatnot oh yeah seriously
this is kind of fun so ok if you look at
different topics for articles out there
there are certain categories of articles
that nobody ever under any circumstances
reads the numbers are just abysmally low
and this is not from any anyone
or anything I think Matt and I between
the two of us we are personal friends
with or frenemies with pretty much every
Linux and tech journalist that's out
there I mean it's a pretty small
community we all know each other really
well and when we get together at
conferences we start sharing horror
stories and there are certain things
that you can write about that sometimes
companies want you to write about or you
feel like might be news that no one
reads for instance containers docker
OpenStack if you write an article about
any of these things you are lucky if you
get a hundred reads of that articles
that article 90 of those reads
are gonna be from whatever company
wanted you to write that article or
whatever product or OpenStack technology
that particular thing is about which
means you're probably reaching oh maybe
five to ten human beings across the
entire world that found your information
insightful interesting or new in some
way it is amazing how few people read
that sort of thing but if you read a
year the legs desk top article if you
write an article with the word a bun to
in the title no joke people read it
seriously non-stop it's it's it's
intense and so what ends up happening is
you know people who have managed the
advertisement for for these four big
websites they need to drive traffic so
they're like hey could you please write
more of that sort of stuff actually
drives the traffic and that's what
determines what news gets covered well a
good example and I'm actually gonna test
this theory and publicly and see if I'm
right on this but I think I am based on
the research I've done if I do a boon to
monkey spank or Linux is my mommy it's
gonna rank because it has certain
keywords in it not mommy necessarily but
you know I like the above one let's go
with yeah it's it's it's and I'm gonna
test this with YouTube because I think
they're the worst in the most notorious
and I've seen evidence that it's it's an
issue so that you can if you don't
keyword things a certain way that can
definitely affect ranking and whatnot
it's it's there's a whole ball of wax
you were talking about like some of the
the you know survery stuff and the
container II stuff and whatnot the but
one reason why you also
see those it's because advertisers pay
big money for that that's done through
Adsense which trust me that it does play
a part or a sponsored post or whatever
there's definitely a you know whole
business back there because apparently a
Sox and people trying to find new ways
to make that work
so yes before so many many years back
it's not that many years back like five
years back or so I went to a conference
and covering a bit of enterprise e Linux
stuff and it not related anything that I
currently do I got paid to go to the
conference by the company throwing the
conference because they needed someone
somebody to write articles about the
things that they were talking about was
all Enterprise Linux e stuff and it was
interesting stuff right like it wasn't
like it was not interesting it was you
know I can't remember exactly what it
was but there was some storage stuff and
there was some there was some cool like
Linux performance tuning stuff my god
it's kind of cool I think I wrote a
couple of articles based on it and I
wasn't like I should when I say they
paid for me to go out there it wasn't
like they gave me salary it was that
they covered my travel and whatnot yeah
so that means that a company found it so
important and so such a dire situation
that no one was gonna cover their Linux
II thing that they flew in a couple of
journalists and this happens constantly
this is this is a standard all the big
Linux and tech companies do this
constantly to fly them in to cover it
and then those articles they get viewed
a couple hundred times and it doesn't
matter how hard you push them because
honestly and if I think about it
reasonably Matt when we come across an
article that's like open stack container
docker con version 7.3 code name
Frankenstein released do either of you
Mir you click it or care only if you
yeah if it was like you know a docker
container versus Mothra or something
like that if you could spicy I yeah yeah
titles to where they're ridiculous and
against me see I went to that I went to
the the title of title school produced
by a guys to work with Chris Parrillo
and he's the one at talking early on
that the more ridiculous the titles a
lot of times you can get get the more
human element going and this is right on
that yeah yeah so you know even
he's been doing this since before
websites or even a thing so you've been
doing it a while yeah it's pretty crazy
so it's weird so it's like even though
the article you do may have value or
maybe someone does a really great
tutorial on solving a problem which I've
done a lot of these and I've stopped
doing them just goes quite frankly I
they're great for me and they're great
for a handful of people who actually
really like them but that's really about
it unless you they don't want that thing
if they don't keep the lights on they
don't think yes yeah and it's not it's
not general or interest it doesn't have
that big you know big thing everyone's
into so yeah we're you're the Linux
desktop you know it works it either
works for your doesn't and I think
that's really that's kind of my view of
it I I celebrate Linux every day I think
it's great it solves all my problems and
does what I needed to it doesn't mind my
business and it's my desktop that's you
know and if that doesn't work for
somebody else that's ok too full circles
full circle anyway anyway a little bit
peek into our world
dark dark sad place you don't want to be
there what keep keep going to school
kids and and don't get into journalism
or anything with writing because oh god
no no news like god yeah such a lesson 9
world oh my god it's amazing if you
really look at it and I don't know how
many people fully realize this but if
you go to tech conferences regularly or
just simply watch it it's a most tech
conferences have a press room right most
not all but most and you go sit in that
press room it is the most depressing
place in the whole world like you sit in
there and it's it's the same like
between five and ten people sitting
there
sadly writing another article about
docker or containers yet again that they
know is not even gonna be read by their
own mothers and that's it is the saddest
state and so I find myself every time I
go to one of these conferences I just I
end up just writing ridiculous articles
cuz I can just get so frigging bored I
kind of take the Matt Hartley approach
oh my god Mothra versus this tech
conference like let's just let's screw
it let's just have some fun with this
because it's just you have to keep
yourself a hand yes
yes like some some tech writers make up
for the fact that some of this is boring
by writing so many boring articles that
it makes your head explode like if you
watch and I don't I hate to point name
so sometimes but I'm gonna right now if
you go over to ZDNet right Steven Vaughn
a good guy really good guy right
supports Linux does a great job of
helping promote all this sorts of stuff
but sometimes he'll go to a tech
conference and he'll sit down and crank
out eleventy thousand articles around
the boringest stuff happening at the
conference and based on whatever boring
press releases there are and he'll just
crank him out one after another and with
the hopes that he can make it up I think
in scale because there's just so many
just quantity a lot of times folks will
do that too especially if there are
freelance because maybe they they put it
up on writing marketplaces to where
they'll have pre done articles that
publishers can buy and bid on us and so
then you have to do crank and I see I
burn out on all that writing stuff a
long time ago I I do I do some of it out
of necessity now but you find yourself
burning out I don't know how he doesn't
burn out I can't even I don't know Oh
Stevens incredible like I'm yours and I
was done I feel like I knocked on him a
little bit just now but no the fact that
he's been doing this for since I believe
1776 they founded America and then said
Steven you're gonna be covering Linux
for us and he's just he writes like
multiple articles every day news
he just one search they're well
researched I mean he takes the
journalistic approach he's actually more
work which is it the rest of in this day
and age I might add but they still don't
like they're still not the kind of
articles that are gonna get a fraction
of the reads of like if Matt Hartley and
I teamed up and wrote a bunch of verses
mothra wide Linux will be the year of
the Linux desktop in 2019 and destroy
Bill Gates or something like that
it will get a billion views and he'll
write twelve articles around actual
pieces of tech yeah look at you know a
thousand views in total among all of
them and that's it's kind of a sad state
but it is what it is and it's like that
across all of journalism it's just this
is the only hell of actualism
look into it that's the thing it's like
yeah and you and I will literally mouth
diarrhea onto the screen it's like the
other day when I tried to I actually I'm
actually testing this I'm writing an
article with that Google microphone
automated righty thing that they got in
chrome now that's fun because that
appeals to my sense of lazy so I'll
literally like in between drinks of
chocolate milk spout out an article and
it's I'm not actually begin to make that
a thing that it's kind of fun and that's
how serious I take this I really yeah
versus even who's actually so into it so
you know that's how burnout I've become
so no I totally get it though I totally
get it man
I want to take a second let's say I want
to switch over to Mastodon we got a lot
of really cool questions only takes over
in Macedon but first I want to answer
someone's question from from the live
chat based on the Mozilla stuff III this
isn't so much a Mozilla or politics or
anything like that but bit Scylla stuff
since Mozilla has donated to an
organization that some people are not a
fan of right that kind of makes it feel
like it's trending kind of political
right if the organization has kind of
endorsed a politics at least that's how
some people view it so with that in mind
should Linux distributions who remain
pretty neutral still bundle and ship
software directly from Mozilla like
Firefox or Thunderbird of the like
should should is is Linux distributions
doing that sort of thing is that them
taking political sides should they do
that what are your thoughts on that cuz
I mean this is kind of interesting I
think is I think it's I think the
problem with any of those situations is
that you're talking about it's a little
bit like when the rest of the world is
pissed off of the United States which is
fairly often every day every day
literally since the 14 everybody in the
rest of the world pissed off rather than
generalizing that all of us are a bunch
of butt heads usually a select group of
people so and I think it's very similar
situation to that it's where the people
that are producing the software probably
don't have a horse in that race and the
soft corner is the same was before that
happens yes you know I just don't care
you know honestly a
unless you know I like unless they're
going out baby seals with Mozilla Styx
I'm not really that concerned about it I
I just it's just not okay because I
think I pathetical hypothetical people
developing the software let's let's
remove the current state of affairs from
it entirely let's even change the
organization entirely sure sure sure
let's say that the KDE project is out
there literally beating baby seals with
sticks they are not I want to be clear
about this I mean you ating that they
are or anything but let's assume that
they're out there beating baby seals
with sticks which from and dogs may be
seals and dogs mercilessly with sticks
and then look at the camera and smile
now you up until this point use a lot of
use Katie in life right for your video
editing yeah sure one do you still use
Katie in live and to what do you feel
about distributions including Katie and
live as the video editor by default
knowing that the main project that funds
it is out there mercilessly beating baby
seals see I'm a bad executive extreme as
possible boycotts were just BS I just I
just never bought into them so I mean I
guess if I was really really that
concerned about it I would want to I
would continue to use it not talk about
it but I would also want to try and
throw money it's something that's
competing against it like maybe an open
shot or whatever to try and deal with
that but at the same time I'm not gonna
stop you you know I see this with a lot
of brick-and-mortar organization or
brick-and-mortar companies whatnot you
know I'm not gonna stop eating chicken
because someone does something I don't
like you know or I'm giving up my hobby
because they're you know they're
protesting in their Lobby or whatever
they're whatever their situation may be
nice job just whipping out moral example
the main you know I saw I mean III think
it's more important what you do then
versus here's it here's another good
example so the chatroom just brought
this up this is brilliant
Dreiser FS Oh guy behind it committed
hard do you use
if it's the best file system available
to the guy committed probably I probably
you know honestly do you use Razer FSS
or you know like the others are usable I
probably would switch
I would probably switch but again I you
know I I don't think I'm doing this is a
line for you there's a line for you
somewhere somewhere know if it's like a
better better example you know someone
decided to come in and just mow down my
family with automatic weapon fire and
they do it and and they're getting
they're producing a great product that I
enjoy news I'm probably gonna stop using
it because now it hit home and I think
that a selfishly cuz I'm a I'm a real
creep I think for me you have to hit a
certain selfish string that I you know
if it if it hits home close enough then
yeah I might actually get off my chair
and stop using a thing yeah but
otherwise yeah I don't know I'm I'm
pretty I'm pretty self-centered
yeah you are I don't really alter this
but just it's a little bit like with
godaddy and some of the stuff the
shenanigans their leadership had at one
point I didn't go switching everything
in one day
I eventually did some of it yeah but I
you know I wasn't I wasn't blown away or
happy with any of it I I did donate
money in the opposite direction
obviously but I didn't you know make a
lifestyle change because of it I just
I'm just kind of boring that way I guess
I don't know yeah I'm a terrible person
yeah man I just had nothing good to say
about Matt Hartley today I know I kind
of agree with you better on this one I
personally feel like like heck should be
removed from all other things you know
yeah like warden we're nerds right like
right like um like I don't know like
like alright so like let's say like this
little Raspberry Pi right I got this
little Raspberry Pi I don't feel like it
shouldn't matter what the politics or
anything of the people behind this are
it should be it should be tech on the
merits of tech what does this enable us
to do what does this give this the power
to do I mean sometimes a little bit of
politics always come up because I mean
what if they're taking all the Raspberry
Pi funds
diverting it - I don't know more baby
seal clubbing and just to be clear here
KDE and Raspberry Pi do not Club baby
seals that we know of
but but I just the same you know it's
kind I I just feel like it should be
separate my my only concerns really with
with issues like that are that it's hard
for everyone to separate things
sometimes sometimes there's always
something that hits really close to home
or that we feel so passionate about and
I hate to see good software I think it
hits close to home for an individual or
even a group of people yeah the rubber
hiss sucks like like if Linus if Linus
came out and was like excuse me I'm
gonna take all the money I've earned
from Linux and I'm gonna donate it
entirely to the clubbing of baby seals I
mean there's an organization I'm
founding we're gonna develop new sticks
that better and more effectively Club
them do we still run Linux oh my god I
don't know that's really really really
really hard that's my point is there's
always that line and I hate I hate to
see great software and great technology
marred by that sort of thing so I wish I
wish so much that tech companies and
organizations and little communities
building these software's which stays
far away from politics as possible leave
the politics to the politicians and the
pundits and just ever in the individuals
the individuals can come out and say
everything they want but I just I don't
know I don't know I felt like the
organization's getting it runs an
equation that's not as popular as it
once was he's publicly he's an absolute
I'm gonna say pervert but he's
definitely a horndog and he's very
public about it and if you follow his
Google+ you know exactly I'm talking
about I do and I have no problem with it
personally cuz I I know I know it's all
good fun he doesn't mean by it but yeah
you know I'm able to even if I did I
would still be able to separate his
distribution from him in that you know
it's not reflective oh yeah on that
creation itself that's not easy to do
for everybody you know you know and that
is tough with some things but yeah for
me it's just like he's not it's not like
he's doing it to people I know or people
that I'm you know it's he's not he's not
doing anything derogatory
yes yeah and that sounds it's very
selfish but I'm very
this person I think I would say I just
don't care and I don't mean that
negatively I just mean that truthfully
it's just not affecting me into it as an
individual yeah that's fair
how about this let's flip it around
completely do you do you like Microsoft
Windows no okay
I don't like the product I don't and see
even even if they don't if they were
awesome and I like their Jimmy Jimmy
hold on I got a thought okay okay
so if knowing that you me and our
community if we start yeah you know
ragging on Microsoft a little bit it's
popular right we all kind of generally
agree that it's at least fun to rag on
them oh if it comes out that Bill Gates
literally was clubbing baby seals while
writing source code for Windows 1.0 do
you and I talk about that or report on
that or laugh about that if I'm totally
honest because I'm that yes we do I mean
I should learn I I I'm gonna not the
action of it but the absurdity laughing
at the absurdity of a thing versus
laughing at it in a literal sense but
people are but it's not is that people
butthurt over but yeah and it's not it's
definitely not going to convince you to
start using Windows though now he'll
know exactly it's a garbage product yes
I'm saying is someone doing something
bad who is a spokesman for a product or
the company behind a product kind of it
pushes you away like it's a turn-off
you know and it makes me less likely to
marketing technique it's it's you know
it's like you never feel the need so you
know when you're running Windows to club
things I wake up I mean yeah obviously
that's not really gonna work out too
well in their favor in that but yeah I
don't know I mean I I definitely take a
very self-centered approach to it very
much so and that's and that's not
necessarily new it's just that's just
who I am I'm also a very giving person I
want people understand ah I'm not always
a complete d-bag but I'm definitely you
know I I you know I'm pretty honest
about it I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
sugarcoat it
you're pretty straightforward guy yeah
alright we have like a million more
questions we got really sidetracked my
apologies I'm just gonna move over to
Mastodon apologies to everyone on
Twitter
didn't ask your question you ask it
again next week Twitter Chris Ware asks
where's the most unexpected and unusual
place you've seen Linux in the wild
right um my - my - can stock ears mine
are obvious and I've repeated these over
and over again I still think it's
ridiculous that they put Linux in a
crock-pot why the hell would you put
Linux in a crock-pot
but but more importantly than that and
more importantly than like the automated
Linux powered cow milking machine Linux
powered gas stove why would you do that
that's such a bad idea
why would you put a gas oven something
that could literally blow up your house
on the internet why would you give it a
piece of software that was complicated
enough that it could crash even though
it's Linux it could happen why would you
do that
it's a password of one two three four oh
my god what do you what do you got what
are you I was gonna say McDonald's
drive-thru but that's you know because
some accounts actually use use windows
in their stuff but I have seen a couple
that didn't use links hey more powers
but that was kind of weird kernel crash
or blue-screen immaterial by the way
you're okay you know either way right
you're getting a sausage and egg
McGriddle bump bump David wants to know
this is just a random question are the
people in the in the Susan music videos
which we do some there's some pretty
good ones as well souza people or hired
actors and when will I be in one I've
never been in one for a couple of
reasons one is that I cannot sing to
save my life though I will be singing
here sometime in the next couple of
weeks when I do the free-software song I
so can't believe I agreed to do that
but no they are hired they're hired
dancers and singers and everything else
usually there's like maybe like one
person in the background that's like
actual like souza engineer or sales guy
or some just look for the awkward person
is thinking why am I in this what's
going totally I think you're the person
that doesn't look like a professional
singer or dancer that person is probably
from Susan or like related to someone
from Sousa otherwise no it's all it's
all paid actors and everything though
the
the the the person that does all the
production on its and writing all the
lyrics and stuff is all is all internal
it's not like it's out sourced or
something like that yep there's
questions on the Atari box which I'm
interested in but because we don't have
any more information there's no much to
talk about
it's a third well ah Matt McNutt
physical QWERTY keyboards on phones do
you miss them wouldn't a QWERTY slider
very into the Libra 5b awesome think of
all the SSA Qing and bash commands you
could do so yes M calls from the prompt
yes please so something like this does
have value to a lot of people as you can
see you know having a physical keyboard
and yeah you know playing on it's like
in some ways yes I love those the
difference is and this is where these
things lose out is I've become someone
that uses a predictive keyboard because
I like to send all my information to the
cloud to the internet you know I get and
I just don't care I can literally with
my phone has been it's gotten so good I
can literally start going like this and
it generally gets a general gist of what
I'm typing out physical keyboards can't
do that and so now where the physical
keyboard I actually have to be semi
accurate could make some yes it's true
it and with predictive keyboard you
don't to worry about it so hmm
that's that's actually a pretty good
thought yeah that makes a fair amount of
sense I I love keyboards on my devices I
love them I have I get as many devices
with physical keyboards as I can even if
they suck on our way to tiny I just I
hate on-screen keyboards so much I love
physical keyboards I just I just do I
like the old and tablet good tactile
keyboard yeah for for an adult sized
keyboard but it's part of almost no I I
can't even begin to use that my thumb's
get in the way and it's no good yeah
good good oh this one wants a quick
update w3c stuff so I'll happen more
updates later so I'm officially accepted
in the w3c I am going to be a member as
soon as they process my paperwork
paperwork has been mailed off checks
been mailed off all to MIT MIT processes
all the paperwork at least for the
region I live in for the w3c and w3c
really isn't
actual organization outside it's just
like a loose conflagration of multiple
universities and whatnot I'm figuring
out more of this as I go but yeah so as
soon as they process it which I'm
assuming should be any day now because
I'm a little I like an air air being me
but with more DRM no no it's so much
less than air B&amp;B there so I have a lot
to talk about on that just a quick
update yes everything's been mailed off
to them they officially accepted me as a
member I am going to be a w3c member or
M already but I don't have an official
w3c email yet that will apparently
happen once they get the physical signed
copy of the papers that I that I've sent
them and that should be they should have
arrived already I'll check in with them
over the course of the next couple of
days I didn't want to bug him just yet
because you know I I don't know it it
goes processed through like a like an
MIT like administrative department and
so on it's gonna be month or two I'll
probably yeah that was kind of my
thought I'm like I figured this will
take a couple of days to get to them in
the mail and then it'll probably sit on
someone's desk for a couple of days and
then they'll process it and then a few
days later they'll notify someone to
create my accounts so I figured if I
hadn't heard anything by like the
beginning of next week I'd be like hey
guys what's happening but yes so
everything's rocking and rolling on that
frack so you're awkward see on Futurama
with the tubes this pneumatic tubes
sending it all over there's a pneumatic
tube connecting every member of the w3c
they'll have to install that in my house
at some point yeah hey Matt are you
wailing on any of your systems right now
couple of people asked this no I like
[Music]
actually it's yeah some people are
asking what the free-software song
sounds like when sung by Linda can have
to wait for that one because honestly
I'm not even sure but it probably sounds
a little bit like what baby seals sound
like when they're being clubbed by kte
it's it's pretty easy so sorry Katy you
guys that's a thing now
kid alright one last question one last
question what do we got my god there's a
lot of questions seriously everyone who
asks questions a master on Twitter if
you don't get your questions answered
today it's not because they were crappy
we're literally just gonna run out of
time because we talk too much it's Oh
terrible at this
all right and here's our dovetailing
question to the year of the Linux
desktop one Roland Goosen this kind of
brings it all together
we'll ask well 2019 be the year of the
Linux phone
now that the Libra five has been reached
[Laughter]
yeah I sure I don't know it's like so
you know define your life the people who
buy them I'm sure yeah to the populous
of the planet no really I I think the
mobile phone wars have been over for
some time now with two clear winners I I
think it's a niche or niche depending on
your pronunciation I say it's you see um
eg yeah you know I think there's a group
of people that are certainly interested
in I think it'll serve them well I think
it's a valuable product but I don't
think it's gonna define it as being the
year of it could let me clarify this if
we start seeing this on 24-hour news
networks on a regular basis on a
continuous news cycle it's real time
then we'll call it your the Linux on the
phone thing you know like it's like it's
actually up in a clock tower or
something is something terrible's you
know or something good like we've
discovered life on another world we get
that level of coverage they share we can
call it that but unless that happens I
don't think so I completely agree with
the highly cynical and frustrated Matt
Hartley on that one I think I think he's
right though like we're gonna see
because we have products happening if
the purism folks ship that that'll be a
big boon forward for running Linux on
phones it's fantastic it's fantastic and
for a certain segment of society that's
going to be a huge deal and honestly
because we're seeing success with
I think that means we're gonna see more
organizations communities and companies
going ahead with more things like that
because success breeds success people
want to emulate success but will it be
the gear of the Linux phone I kind of
feel like that means that it Linux
phones would be winning something and I
just don't see that happening anytime
soon there we've got multiple market
players that are just kicking ass and
taking names and making billions of
dollars in sales can we compete with
that round oh not really not in terms of
actually it's you know dethroning them
in terms of sales and market share at
least not right away that means if we
have any chance its years out and that's
a bummer for a lot of us but it is what
it is I mean we got to be kind of
realistic about it also I kind of hate
the idea that come January we're gonna
have 18,000 year of the Linux phone
articles and that just bums me out a
little bit though I tell you what I'm
sure if they if they are being written I
guarantee you they will all be written
by people using Android phones and
iPhones or Chromebooks right right I
mean I mean what was it well Jim's Emlyn
was running a Mac when he declared year
of the Linux desktop this year I don't
see how 2018 is gonna be any different
than 2017 man it is just is what it is
right
oh and just to address this because this
got a the the fact that I reported on
Jim's Emlyn running a Mac I got a lot of
press
I had no problem with Jim's Emlyn
there's not a personal attack on Jim's
Emlyn but if you are having if you are
the spokesman for a product like let's
say Pepsi if I'm the spokesman for Pepsi
and I'm out in public drinking nothing
but coca-cola and smiling for the camera
as I drink coca-cola and in the same
breath saying drink Pepsi that makes me
a terrible spokesman no matter what else
I do that's good because that's that
people it's like there was literally
that I'm sorry that is I have no vested
interest in being nice or not nice it
was the stupidest thing I ever heard in
my life
how the hell do you get on stage running
a competing product and then dictate I
mean I know it
I know I'm not so judging the man
personally but exactly right I can not I
have no problems with Jim none at all in
fact I think he's done some good stuff
right
ii-i've met Jim personally this guy
we've we've broken bread together we've
we've shaken hands and greet each other
cordially totally fine Jim come on run
Linux in public I don't care what you do
in private but since you're a spokesman
you gotta be running something run
Android run Chromebooks it doesn't
matter just something with Linux in
public have you keep your windows laptop
in your bag
keep your MacBook and your iPhone in
your bags and whip out the Linux when
you're on stage because it's better as a
marketing tool that's how it is that's
your job it's like it's my job there was
one time five years ago six years ago
more than that probably I went to a
Linux conference and I had a Windows
tablet in my bag the reason I had the
Windows tablet in my bag is because I
was working with someone from the Fedora
project on getting Linux running on that
tablet because we wanted to get Linux
running on Beitel tablets someone saw me
with that and that became a news
headline like the following week LAN
dukes running Windows when he gives us
Linux sucks presentation like no I
wasn't I was running all Linux even the
slightest hint of me being in public
with something that wasn't Linux just a
little tiny bit boom so when you're in
public don't screw up like I did that
one time use the thing you're a
spokesman for anyway totally sad Wow
yeah anyway side note
Matz Matz yes math yes where can people
watch all your good stuff my friend when
I get around to it on freedom penguin
comm there's a video soon went up there
I got one it should be going up today
and there'll be more stuff going up up
after that laughs today yeah today is
great that's fantastic you guys are
rocking linkbait garbage what does your
patreon
oh yeah patreon patreon see this is my
patreon replace that Brian lund up there
with freedom penguin and you'll get some
Matt's patreon by the way again thanks
to all these people supporting this show
all these people are that the the 16-bit
level supporters of the show there's a
whole bunch more that are
there are the other levels but this is
the special people that are at the very
tippy top thank you guys so much and
thanks again to system76 and pogo Linux
for supporting the show all of you are
fantastic mats thank you for yours my
friend
thanks always having to hang out with
you all right one word what's the word
Pepsi that is the word that's dairy gold
I saw that YouTube's really gonna flag
it now this is not for all advertisers
you talked about chocolate milk I don't
think that's appropriate at all probably
hello and welcome to sake Tech in
today's video I will give you guys a
quick introduction to Linux and I'm
going to show you how to use some very
useful introductory Linux commands using
a terminal window now just to be clear
this is a course for beginners who want
to learn how to use commands on a Linux
terminal now for those of you guys who
are not familiar with Linux at all let's
give you a quick perspective Linux is
not Unix UNIX was created by a bunch of
AT&amp;T employees in a 1969 Linux was
written by a name by a guy named Linus
travolt who created the entire thing by
himself and released it around 1991 now
Linux is a powerful operating system but
it is especially designed for server
systems and 90% of the world's fastest
computers like supercomputers run on
some form of Linux and this is because a
rock-solid
system okay so that was a quick history
on Linux that was just to give you a
perspective now Linux and UNIX are
different just remember that now one
more thing before we dive in Linux comes
in many different varieties which are
called distros or distributions in this
tutorial we will use the popular Ubuntu
distribution of Linux but there are
others out there as well such as Fedora
mint and Debian and more even Android is
a Linux distribution so the basic
commands we will rerun it we will be
running and learning today can be
generally used on almost all different
Linux distributions alright so let me go
ahead and launch Linux and I just wanna
let you know I'm running Linux on my
Windows so what you do is you install
VirtualBox which is right here so let me
launch that and inside a virtual box you
can install any operating system
possible so I have put Ubuntu Linux in
side of VirtualBox on my Windows 7
machine ok so let me run this up and I
just want to let you know you can
actually find a link in the description
below which tells you how to install the
VirtualBox and Linux on your windows 7
if you want to go ahead and do that but
this is the Ubuntu Linux that is
launching right now ok so here you're
looking at bound to Linux and before we
dive into the commands I'm going to show
you something real quick what you're
seeing here all these icons all this
desktop all this nice graphical features
this is called the GUI GUI this is
called the graphical user interface now
we are not worried about that today what
we're worried about is the CLI which is
called a command line interface so you
have to launch a terminal to go into the
command line interface and then once you
are search for an app you can type in
terminal which brings up the terminal
right here and then you can actually
click that and that is the terminal we
will be working with all right so the
first command we will be looking at
today is the PWD command
oops it's not typing ok PWD command PWD
command
stands for print working directory so
when I press ENTER it actually tells me
which directory I am currently located
at so if I go to my own folder browser
arm I am actually in home sake which is
right here so I'm looking at all these
guys on my command prompt
now the second command I want to show
you guys is the LS command when you
press LS it gives you a listing of
everything which is in the current
directory so the current directory is
the sake directory which is my username
and
under home inside of home I've got all
these guys so I've got the desktop
downloads music public videos and if you
come over here that's all the same stuff
you're going to see in a regular file
explorer so here's the desktop documents
downloads music same stuff that you see
here so that is the LS command it's it's
it stands for list and when you list it
lists whatever is inside of your current
directory again PWD stands for print
working directory so it tells you where
you are currently located in now as you
can see when you have a pretty graphical
user interface you can see everything
right in front of you
but if you have a command-line interface
like this one a terminal you're not
going to be able to see anything so if I
clear this that's all you see so you
have no idea where you are okay
so to see where you are PWD to see what
you have at where you are you type in
list now the next command I'm going to
show you is called a CD command and CD
command has a lot of variations CD is
used for navigation so let's say I want
to go to the Downloads folder how do I
go there I type in CD and I type in
downloads the name of the folder and
just remember everything has to be
exactly as it appears so in Linux
everything is case-sensitive so this
cannot be a small d it has to be
capitalized just like it is here ok so
if I type in CD downloads now I am in
the Downloads folder ok and how do I
know I'm in downloads folder
PWD it actually tells you right here so
I'm in home slash sake slash downloads
ok and let's see what we have in
downloads right now type in lists and
there's nothing in downloads so let's
all launch this again go to downloads
and as you can see down
directory is actually empty okay so if
it is empty you're not going to see
anything here now let's say I want to go
back to my home directory my sake
directory how do I go back
so CD takes you into a folder and if you
want to go out what you do is you type
in CD space two dots and that takes you
back to the previous directory that you
were focused on now if you want to go to
the root directory which is like in
Windows it's like the C directory what
you type is CD forward slash make sure
you put the space okay
so CD space forward slash press enter
and that's going to take you to the root
directory let's type in LS and as you
can see the root directory has much more
than your user directory okay again but
home and sake is inside of root root is
at the top of everything so if you look
around carefully you'll see the home
directory sitting in the root directory
and if you go in there
CD home and you type in LS you will see
your username okay and then CD sake then
you type in LS and now you're back over
here this and this match so remember
this will take you to the root of your
Linux operating system and inside of
root you've got all kinds of fancy
things that you don't want to worry
about right now so let's do a quick
recap let's go to the music folder CD
music so I'm now in the music's folder
or the directory I'm going to be using
the the word folder and directory
interchangeably interchangeably and
they're going to be mean B meaning the
same exact thing okay so in here let's
type in PWD so that means print
print working directory and it tells you
that you are in fact focused on the
music folder again if you go over here
here's the music folder if you go to
home here's the music folder okay it's
empty let's type in LS to see if it is
really empty it is in fact empty so next
I'm going to show you how to copy or
move a file so let's go back CD space
dot takes us back and do an LS and let's
say I want to go into the Documents
folder so I type in CD Documents and
then type in LS and here what I have is
I have a test file so this is one of the
files what I want to do what I want to
do is I want to copy this file and I'm
going to use the CP command for that
that stands for a copy I'm going to copy
this test file and I'm going to paste it
into the same folder with a different
name so test copy and I'm going to press
Enter okay just to give you make you
understand exactly what happens so you
use the copy command you pick the file
that you're trying to copy and then you
give it a brand new name to create the
copy within the same folder okay so if I
type in LS now you have the first file
test and then you've got test copy now
how do I remove this file you use the RM
command okay so the RM command is used
to delete a file in your current folder
so if you type in RM test copy and you
type in LS as you can see test copy is
gone and we only have test left over now
what if I want to copy test file and I
want to paste it into the Downloads
folder how do you do that okay what you
got to do is you
have to type in CP and you take the test
file and then you have to tell the
computer where do you want to put the
copy of the test file so remember if you
go up here we're working under home /
sake okay so what you want to do is you
want to do slash home slash sake slash
downloads and you press ENTER and type
in LS we still have the test file right
here now let's go back CD doc type in LS
and let's navigate to the Downloads
folder and if I type in LS here now
we've got the file test sitting here
which we copied over from the Documents
folder so let's go ahead and remove this
file from the downloads folder so our M
is the remove command RM test and
remember because we are focused in two
downloads when we do RM tests it's going
to duck it's going to delete the test
file only from the Downloads folder
because that is where we are focused on
press ENTER type in list one more time
LS and now there's nothing there left so
let's go back let's just type in PWD and
we were back in home sake okay next the
next style let's talk about making a new
folder and deleting a new folder so let
me launch this right here and I'm going
to minimize I'm going to make this a
little thinner here okay so you can
still see what's going on one second all
right so that's better so let's go to my
arm My Documents over here and let's go
to CD documents oops
documents okay so now we're in the
Documents folder and all we have in here
is the test file which you can see right
here let's make a new folder so how do
you make a new folder you use the
command called MK dir press enter and
it's going to say some kind of error
because we were missing an operand okay
so we were missing the new directory we
used the command but we did not specify
the name of the directory so you type in
MK dere dir and then you type in test
folder I'm going to use capital letters
here okay and as you can see over here a
test folder was created instantly and I
can actually go into that test folder if
I wanted to LS and there's nothing in
there let's go back CD dot and let's
delete the test folder so how do you
delete that what you do is you using the
computer command or M D bar so this one
is make directory
this one is remove directory type in
test folder and I'm not going to press
ENTER take a look over here let's come
back here and press ENTER and that
directory disappears
now if the directory had something
inside it we cannot delete the directory
that has stuff in it using rmdir okay so
let's uh MK dir make another directory
in the Documents folder and say test ok
so it popped up right here and let's go
inside here and let's just create a new
document ok new doc now if I try to
delete this using rmdir test folder
let's go back here ok so now the test
folder has a file in it it is the new
doc ok if I try to delete that
it's going to say failed to remove test
directory is not empty so how do you
delete this you have to actually use the
RM command which is a remove command for
files but what you do is you have to set
a new option you have to say - R and
then you have to type in test ok so
watch this there's still a file in here
but it's just going to disappear ok so
everything in test has been removed so
this is how you delete folders that have
existing files inside of them you use
the RM command you put a space you put a
minus R and then you put a space and
then you put the name of the directory
right underneath right next to - R ok so
here it's got a really messy here so
let's use the clear command to clear the
screen real quick and I'm going to talk
about a couple of commands and we're
going to end the tutorial here all right
so the final command I want to go over
is called a man command
ok ma n now this stands for manual
manuals ok like like tutorials so when
you don't know what you're doing and you
want to find out more about any command
that you're using you can type in man
space and let's just say the LS command
which is the list command and you press
ENTER it's going to give you a whole lot
of information regarding the LS command
so you're going to get the name of the
command which is LS it says list
directory contents ok you get a quick
setup synopsis you get a description of
what the command exactly does and all
that stuff and once you're done reading
this whole thing you just type key Q to
quit ok so let's do one more man and
let's do the CP command which is the
copy command
press ENTER and it says here it copies
files and directories okay and you have
a description here and you can read
through this whole thing and you can
keep pressing enter to get more
information so press ENTER to continue
okay to go all the way but when you're
done you can press Q and it just quits
the manual so that's how you can get
information on any command that you want
in Linux alright and thanks for watching
this video
now there going to be more Linux
tutorials coming soon
so go ahead and subscribe to my channel
for more videos to come give me a thumbs
up if you liked this video and you can
also follow me on Facebook Google+ and
Twitter okay so we have all these
options all links to my social media
websites and my actual website are found
in the description below alright thanks
for watching again and I'll see you the
next time
there are many reasons to like Windows
Mac OS or Linux but which OS offers more
potential for the user in the long run
here's ten reasons why Linux is a better
OS than either Mac OS or Windows number
one the code base is open source we
already know Linux is free to use and
free to obtain but more importantly
there is a freedom from surveillance by
companies such as Microsoft or Apple
additionally well-established
open-source applications such as firefox
libreoffice VLC and many of the other
apps available don't stretch the bounds
of user privacy with the constant
erosion of privacy by Windows Mac OS and
iOS and even Android it's refreshing to
know that the Linux environment respects
user privacy this isn't to say that
there aren't some Linux distributions
that may collect data on the user it's
well known that abun - collects at least
some information in conjunction with the
Amazon app that is installed
of course the maker of Ubuntu is a
for-profit company and must bring in
revenue somehow Ubuntu has brought some
amazing changes to the Linux community
which are freely available for any Linux
distribution to use number two different
desktop environments to suit a variety
of user needs unlike Windows or Mac OS
there are different desktop environments
to choose from that is easily
configurable for the end-user some of
the more popular desktop environments
are gnome KDE plasma xfce and cinnamon
users can also have more than one
desktop environment installed and switch
between them at any time
although Windows 10 and Mac OS offer
consistent user environment it also
lacks any real revolutionary changes
users are greeted with the same
interface day in and day out examples of
lackluster trivial changes include the
flattening of the minimize maximize and
close buttons although there are small
changes in tweaks the core of Mac OS has
essentially remained the same
to this day some may say that the touch
bar on Mac OS is an example of recent
innovation but this is a weak attempt to
compete with Microsoft's touchscreen
interface both are a mix of hardware and
software but in this video we're going
to stay focused on primarily software
changes number three stable codebase is
far better than Windows or Mac although
every OS has its bugs Linux users will
tell you that Linux is by far the most
stable and resilient operating system
available most Linux users are also
users of Windows or Mac OS or both with
that experience they can tell you that
Linux does an excellent job at
supporting large established platform of
hardware and receives frequent and
useful updates almost daily to be sure
this can be particularly subjective and
most users will defend their choice of
system this is not to say Linux isn't
without its problems some third-party
hardware such as video cards can be
downright difficult to install and
configure the driver once the driver is
installed however as always problems are
at a minimum number 4 ability to work
with Linux UNIX mac or windows file
systems unlike its competitors Linux can
easily read and write to HFS+ or NTFS
formatted drives this is a major time
saver when one is transferring files
back and forth from a Linux system to
another system for example Windows will
not even see a Linux or Mac OS formatted
Drive and offer to format the drive with
NTFS when it is plugged in mac OS at
least can read a Windows formatted Drive
so it's possible to get the data from
the drive
number five Linux can be installed on
any PC or Mac Linux is system agnostic
and can easily be installed on any
hardware platform Linux can also be
installed on arm based systems such as
the Raspberry Pi making it the most
universally accepted OS on a variety of
hardware but it doesn't stop there Linux
is very capable installing on a system
that already has an OS even if the drive
is completely formatted for example if
your Windows system has an NTFS
partition across the entire drive the
Linux installer and Fedora is able to
shrink the partition and install the
user can then select the OS to boot from
easily at startup number 6 open source
application availability there are
plenty of applications to choose from in
Linux and every category of software is
covered from office apps to programming
graphics internet multimedia and games
one can find quality open source apps
although Linux doesn't boast as many
apps as Windows or Mac OS there are
literally thousands of applications for
a wide variety of needs number seven
easy and intuitive updater Linux
overshadows both Windows and Mac with
its powerful and quick update
application regardless of the
distribution Linux is capable of
updating apps in real time while a user
continues to work without the need of
reboot
there are a few packages that require a
reboot such as the kernel on those rare
occasions that do require a reboot the
user gets to choose when incidentally
after the reboot there are no additional
steps and the system boots up
immediately included with bug fixes and
enhancements for the OS and apps are
security updates
although the update process can be
automated the choice of when and how is
fully within the users control users are
able to disable individual packages from
being updated or entire repositories
contrast this with the daily nag screen
for Mac OS or the intrusive and
arbitrary way that Windows applies
updates with little or no
input from the user it's no surprise for
Windows tend to take 20 to 30 minutes to
install updates then take another 20
minutes to finish updates after
rebooting number eight genuinely fun to
set up and work with one can create
their own custom environment write their
own programs or enhancing existing
programs the ability to tweak and change
just about everything in Linux is
reminiscent of the 80s when PC
enthusiasts would meet and trade ideas
about computers or shareware programs
there never seem to be a lack of
exciting new changes or programs to talk
and learn about many users enjoyed
writing custom batch scripts for Dawson
pushing their 808 six or eight oh eight
eight computers as far as possible
indeed the roll-your-own system was most
likely created back then today this
collaborative and enthusiastic
environment is infectious in Linux and
is very conducive to the do-it-yourself
user number nine a large support group
the enthusiasm of Linux users is
apparent one has only to do a search on
the internet and you will quickly find a
myriad of help sites and forums with
users ready to offer help and support
for just about any Linux based topic
YouTube is another great example of
Linux support there are thousands of
videos with help on just about any Linux
topic yes there are Windows and Mac OS
support videos as well but some issues
are limited by Microsoft and Apple many
times Linux users will write and compile
a code fix for the problem while a
Windows or Mac user will have to wait
for the company to release an update
if they ever do and number 10
the future is transparent although
Microsoft and Apple are not like it'll
disappear anytime soon they do have
complete control over their products
they can choose how long a product will
be supported and even how long it will
be available in the open-source
community there is a lot of discussion
about the difference in software
development philosophies known as the
cathedral and the bazaar Eric s Raymond
originally wrote about this concept in
an essay and later in a book published
in 1999 on one hand a company like
Microsoft uses the Cathedral philosophy
meaning all code is closed and produced
in-house if the company chooses to no
longer support a release a product you
can do so on a whim users are never
aware of the actual source code nor can
they gain access to it or edit it the
bazaar philosophy is more of a bottom-up
development style meaning that software
code is developed by anyone over the
Internet and is open and transparent for
all to see your change
Raymond considered this development
style to have first been created by
Linus Torvalds when he began the Linux
project there are many advantages to the
bazaar most importantly that no one
person or organization controls access
to the source code and anyone is free to
participate in its development Linux in
the packages that make up a distribution
like Fedora Debian or arch are all
open-source and developed by anyone who
has an interest although distributions
may come and go the core of Linux and
its supporting applications will always
be available and developed regardless of
the downfall or change of any one
company many companies such as Google
IBM Microsoft and others actively
participate in the development of Linux
and its well-established codebase this
ensures that Linux will be around for a
very long time and as we have seen will
only continue to get better and better
if you enjoyed this video please take a
moment to like and subscribe if you
found it really useful please share as
always drop a comment let me know what
you think and again thank you for
watching and I'll see you in the next
video
you
hello given a bomb welcome to a Eureka
online training session would like to
hear from all of you whether you all can
view of my screen and able to hear me
properly please confirm either by
raising your hand or by using chat
option which is present in your
attendees panel field knowledge means
thanks a lot for confirming let me
quickly introduce about myself my name
is Bhaskar Reddy and I have 14 plus
years of experience in IT industry my
main expertise into Linux and UNIX
administration Storage Management and
various other virtualization
technologies I've handled many projects
in storage but UNIX and Linux
administration especially into
automation and virtualization
technologies like Hetchy and fault
tolerance apart from this I have been
engaged in in-house training corporate
and online trainings as well so today we
will have a session on Linux interview
questions I hope this session will be
very helpful for those audience who
would like to take part and attend
interviews on linux administration part
though we are not covering each and
every aspect of linux but we have
selected few frequently asked questions
in interviews as we all know linux is
completely a command oriented operating
system and you can expect questions and
interviews like in theory and practicals
as well so thank you once again for all
the attendees for joining today's
session so let's get started with it and
please let me know if you have any
queries and concerns during the session
I would kindly reduce you to use the
chat option so that I can assist you
further so I'll just run through some
slides and if any practical question
comes I will be using this buddy session
as you can see here I just logged into
one of my linux server if any practical
question comes I can show you
practically by using this party session
I've just connected to one of my Linux
box through but it's offered so this
would be practically oriented one so
let's get with the interview questions
here the first question the basic
question would be what does
okay so as a layman as an interviewer if
I ask this question what is Linux the
first answer would be it is an operating
system so before I get into Linux first
of all let me explain you like what is
an operating system every time you
switch on your computer you see a screen
where you can perform different
activities like read and write or browse
the internet or watch a video what is it
that makes the computer hardware work
like that how does the processor on your
computer knows that you are asking it to
run or mp3 file well it is the operating
system of the kernel which does this
work a kernel is the program at the
heart of the operating system that takes
care of fundamental stuff like letting
Hardware communicate with software so to
work on your computer you need an
operating system in fact you are using
one as you read this on your computer
now you may have used popular OS like
Windows Apple OS X but here we will
learn what Linux is and what benefits it
offers over other OS choices so Linux is
an operating system or a kernel which
germinated as an idea in the mind of
young and bright Linus Torvalds when he
was a computer science student Linus
Torvalds is considered as father of
Linux operating system so when he was as
a computer science student he took a
Linux kernel and he developed from the
scratch he used to work on UNIX
operating system which in those days
called as a proprietary software and
thought that it needed improvements
however when the suggestions were
rejected by the designers of Unix
he thought of launching an operating
system which will be receptive to
changes modification suggested by its
users the benefits of using Linux
operating system what are the main
benefits and why it gained more
popularity compared to other operating
systems the main benefits are it offers
a free operating system
you do not have to shell hundreds of
dollars to get the oils like Windows
being open-source implicit or Scott the
Linux operating system
nuf offers millions of programs
applications to choose from most of them
are free now once you have Linux
installed you no longer needed an
anti-virus because Linux is highly
secure system more so there is a global
development community constantly looking
at ways to enhance its security with
each upgrade the OS becomes more secure
and robust Linux is the oil of choice
for server environments due to its
stability and reliability mega companies
like Amazon Facebook and Google used
Linux for their service a Linux based
server could run non-stop without a
reboot for years on end ok this is all
about Linux so Linux is just an
operating system or a kernel ok which
has been developed from UNIX operating
system so this is what we have discussed
and coming to the next question how
different is Linux when compared to UNIX
operating system you might face
different types of questions when you
attend this type of interviews in linux
operating system like what is the
comparison what is the differences did
you find between like Linux and UNIX
operating system as I said earlier Linux
is the UNIX clone but if you consider it
according to the POSIX standards a
process is nothing but a portable
operating system interface according to
this standards
Linux can be considered as Unix exactly
to code from official Linux kernel
readme file Linux is a UNIX clone
written from the scratch by Linux
turbines with assistance of hackers
across the net so I'll just take some
strategies here in terms of cost in
terms of development and distribution in
terms of manufacturer like what are the
differences between Linux and UNIX in
terms of cost
Linux can be freely distributed
downloaded freely distributed through
magazines books etc there are priced
versions of Linux also but
they are normally cheaper than Windows
operating system when you compare with
UNIX in UNIX we have different flavors
of UNIX have different cost structures
according to the vendors in terms of
development and distribution Linux is
developed by open source development
that is through sharing and
collaboration of code and features
through forums and it is distributed by
various vendors when coming to UNIX UNIX
systems are divided into various other
flavors mostly developed by AT&amp;T as well
as various commercial vendors and
nonprofit organizations in terms of
manufacturer Linux kernel is developed
by the community by Linus Torvalds Linus
Torvalds will oversee things and when
you talk about Unix
three biggest distributions are Solaris
which is stuff acquired by Oracle AIX by
IBM vendor hp-ux it's by tablet packer
and Apple makes OS X which is also a
UNIX based operating system okay so I've
just taken three aspects here like cost
development and distribution and
manufacturer like this we have many such
differences between Linux and UNIX
operating system okay so in case of any
questions any queries please use a chat
window I will be gladly assist you so
this is what we have discussed okay
coming to the next question like what is
the importance of GNU project GNU
project was launched in September 1983
by Richard installment to create a
complete operating system which is free
software the main intention of GNU
project is to create an operating system
which is completely open source which is
completely freely available for all
public users the main licenses of the
GNU project are the GNU GPL which is
nothing but the general public licenses
the name of the GNU project is derived
from the recursive acronym which is
nothing but GN use not Unix
okay the full form of GNU it's a
recursive term Jian use not Unix
unikz was a very popular operating
system in the mid-80s
so richard stallman designed gnu to be
mostly compatible with unix operating
system so that it would be convenient
for people to migrate to GNU so the
genome project was intended to create a
unix-like operating system but it should
be freely available for all the public
uses and it should be a open-source
operating system so this led to the
birth of Linux operating system okay
the end of Linux kernel and the GNU
utilities that is a question from
Prakash the question is GNU compatible
with physics standards yes okay every
operating system like when you talk
about Linux and UNIX all are POSIX
standards I hope I answered your
question Prakash okay the importance of
the GNU project the free software
movement started by Richard installment
ok you see the full form of GNU GNU snot
UNIX it's a recursive term ok and coming
to the next question the question is
like what does Linux kernel okay so this
is an important question would be asked
in different types of interviews and
most of the people will they get
confused in answering this question what
is Linux kernel let me explain you in a
simpler way with over 13 million lines
of code the Linux kernel is one of the
largest open source projects in the
world but what is a kernel and what it
is used for a kernel is the lowest level
of easily replaceable software that
interfaces with the hardware in your
computer it is responsible for
interfacing all of your applications
that are running in user mode down to
the physical hardware and allowing the
processes which are known as the
services to get information from each
other using inter process communication
technically speaking a kernel is nothing
but the core of any operating system and
it is responsible for translating the
user commands into equivalent language
understood by the computer hardware
okay so kernel it is nothing but the
heart of any operating system
it's a code of any operating system
which is responsible for translating the
user commands into equivalent language
understood by the computer hardware okay
so if you can see this a pictorial
representation on the Left pane okay you
see applications on top of kernel you
see applications and bottom of the
kernel you see the hardware devices the
hardware devices like CPU memory and the
devices which are attached to the
computer okay so in order to interact
with the kernel okay applications you
see on top of operating system you have
applications so in order to interact
with an operating system applications
you need to have some kind of language
right so kernel would be acting as a
mediator mediated between applications
and hardware devices it just translates
the users language to the machine
language and machines language to the
users language it's a core kernel is
nothing but the core the heart of any
operating system okay any questions any
concerns please let me know and coming
to the next question what is a shell and
in shell what is exactly called as a
bash shell okay so let me explain you
what is exactly a shell a shell is a
user program or its environment provided
for user interaction a shell is a
command language interpreter that
execute commands read from the standard
input device which is called as a
keyboard or from a file shell is not
part of system kernel but use the system
kernel to execute programs like creating
files creating directories etc okay so
please remember shell is exactly called
as a user interface in order to interact
with operating system we need one kind
of interface right that interface is
called as a shell okay shell is a
command language interpreter most of the
people often confuse between interpreter
and a compiler okay please remember
interpreter is
type of a mechanism that execute
commands which are read from the
standard input device or from a file
okay so when you talk about shell in
shell we have different types in Linux
and UNIX operating system we have bash
shell we have single shell we have
console we have facial we have public
domain cultural we have different types
of shells used in Linux and UNIX
operating system but bash is a default
shell bash has been adopted as a default
shell for most Linux systems okay bash
is a shell or a command language
interpreter for the GNU operating
systems once again I am using the term G
and new ok GNU operating systems like
Linux in most distributions of Linux
operating system bash is incorporated as
the default shell okay
the name is an acronym for the born
again shell bash stands for born again
shell
okay it is named after a person called
Steven born okay he is the author for
born again shell now why bash has been
incorporated as the default shell
because in bash we have many such
futures features like command aliasing
command completion by using the tab keys
and the command history also okay like
in order to execute the commands like no
need to remember all the commands in
Linux operating system okay
with lot of ease you can execute all
these commands by the features of bash
shell okay
c'mon aliasing command completion or
file completion by using the tab keys
and the command history okay in order to
execute like previous commands no need
to type the commands again and again you
can recall those commands by using the
up and down arrow keys using that you
can recall all those commands okay if I
show you practically one particular
example we have one command called clear
in Linux so this is the terminal I am
using the command line interface the
terminal where we can gain access to
Linux operating system
I'm just giving one particular example
like by Bosch has been incorporated as a
default shell okay let's see what is
exactly a command aliasing I am
executing the command called clear the
command clear which is used to clear the
screen so every time you want to clear
the screen
you run the command clear once you press
Enter the screen will be cleared now
instead for this lengthy program and
what I'll do here I'll just make an
alias C is equal to clear now once you
press ENTER for that particular command
clear has been Aaliyah's to see now
instead of running command clear I can
run the alias command called C once you
press ENTER the screen would be cleared
like this for any such programs or
applications if you want to do a liasing
this is possible with bash shell now
these kind of features you cannot see in
other shells okay in other shells other
shells like sea shell conch shell public
domain conch shell you don't see all
this types of features in other shells
okay there is a question from Prakash so
it's just the next version right yes
okay in UNIX operating system the
default shell was shell okay and what
this person has done stiffened born has
incorporated some new features okay some
features have been incorporated in
single shell and this has been renamed
as the bash shell okay bash is nothing
but the born again shell it is named
after an inventor called Steven born
okay
in Linux if you want to see the types of
shells which are supported you can check
this configuration file the
configuration file called slash EDC
slash shells okay this is a
configuration file where you can see the
number of shells supported by Linux or
UNIX operating system if you want to see
what is the default shell you can just
recall the environment variable called
shell this will tell you what is the
default shell used in the operating
system
you see slash bin slash bash
okay so that is the importance of Bashan
and you must have got an idea like what
is shell and what is the importance of
bash shell okay
and coming to the next question what are
demons so this would be a tricky
question asked in interviews like what
are demons if I put it in simpler format
or demin according to my readings demons
are services that provide several
functions that may not be available
under the base operating system its main
task is to listen for service requests
and at the same time to act on these
requests after the service is done it is
then disconnected and wait for further
requests Adam in process has no
controlling terminal it cannot open the
terminal for example /dev / tty if you
do psi fan AF and look at that PPD tty
field all the lens will have question
mark for the tty terminal okay I'll give
a practical example here if I run a
command psi n EF you see for most of the
demons usually in Linux and UNIX
operating system
adilyn would end with D okay you see for
example let's take this particular
dimension K thread D okay at the end you
see the character here D which is
nothing but a demon okay as I told you
Adam end process has no controlling
terminal
if you check TP wife field here for this
particular dimension mark okay Adam end
process is essentially a program that
runs in the background and is usually
started when the operating system starts
up okay if you want me to take one more
example a typical Devon process in a
male demon that runs in the background
checking to see if we have received a
new male when you do it notifies you
okay
so most demons tend to last a long time
be owned by a root or do something
useful but this is a very tricky
question okay what is the difference
between a demon and the process okay so
please
don't get confused between this a demon
is a service that provides several
functions that may not be available
under the base operating system okay the
main advantage the main task is to
listen for service requests and at the
same time it will be act on this request
so that is about the demons okay one
good example you can always run psi
finesse and you check all the demons in
the tty field you see the question mark
that means we have not initiated this
system the operating system has
initiated all these demons okay and
coming to the next question
what is a lil Oh a lil o is a Linux
loader it's a boot loader for Linux
operating system it is used to load
Linux into the memory and stop the
operating system lilo can be configured
to boot other operating systems as well
lilo is customizable which means that if
the default configuration is not correct
it can be changed the main configuration
file for Lila would be /et c / yellow
corn okay as I said lil o stands for
Linux loader which is just a bootstrap
program lilo is a code snippet which
loads PC BIOS into the main memory at
the time of starting the computer system
okay and the main task
it handles is locating a Linux kernel
identifying other supporting programs
and loading them into the memory and
starting the kernel okay so lilo is not
used nowadays the default boot loader
for Linux operating system is now this
grub which is called a grand unified
boot loader okay when you talk about the
latest version of Linux operating system
it has been replaced with grub - okay
some more features has been added in
grub and they have released a new
version that is called grub - okay so
this is all about lilo it is just a
lonex loader it is called as a bootstrap
program it's a boot loader which loads
Linux operating system into the main
memory coming to the next question what
are the advantages of Linux being open
source okay
so we have been discussed in the earlier
questions also the advantages of open
source operating system Linux was one of
the first open source technologies but
many programmers have contributed and
added software that's completely
open-source for any user this means that
you can download the source code and
change it in any way you like some
developers have restrictions on how you
can distribute the code for instance
some developments allows you to change
the code but you cannot distribute it
for money one main advantage of open
source technologies such as Linux is a
wide range of options available to users
and the increased security with Linux
being open source several distributions
are available to the end user
for example distribution such as debian
fedora Ubuntu and mint are just a few of
the distributions available to end-users
and these distributions are completely
free to download security is the other
main advantage several white hat hackers
have contributed to the overall security
of Linux and by making the source
available to anyone security experts can
help identify any main security flaws in
the operating system there is a question
from Prakash it says that is every Linux
distro is free technically speaking yes
ok but there are some companies ok when
we talk about this support when we talk
about technical support ok so I was
talking about Linux is completely
open-source product it's completely
available for public users yes the OS is
free but if anyone if any organization
is looking for support ok you have to
pay only for the support not for the
operating system operating system is
anyhow free
okay if you talk about Enterprise Linux
okay Red Hat Enterprise Linux this is
the commercial stream this is the
product which comes from the commercial
stream the operating system is available
free of course but if you're looking for
the support enterprise support you have
to pay them okay
Prakash does it answer your question is
according to my readings like borer and
3/16 and dollars would be charged okay
according to the enterprise support the
basics are put again
in the support you have different types
okay for basic support you have to pay
369 dollars when you talk about Red Hat
Enterprise Linux you have to pay 315 in
dollars no problem Prakash that's fine
so shall we move on to the next question
yes Prakash when we say open source yes
the operating system is open source but
we are not paying anything for operating
system like Windows right even for
getting Windows operating system we will
pay some fees to the Microsoft
Corporation
but unlike Windows we're not paying
anything for operating system in Linux
here only for enterprise support only
for the support we are paying that ok
yes if you look the kind of support the
support like in case of the new updates
or any new releases or any bug you
looking for
the bug free operating system for that
we are just paying support for
enterprise solutions ok
Thank You Prakash coming to the next
question like what are the basic
components of Linux operating system ok
this is a general question which would
be asked in the interviews Linux
operating system has primarily three
components what we have discussed
already is kernel a kernel is the core
part of Linux which is responsible for
all major activities of this operating
system it consists of various modules
and it interacts directly with the
underlying hardware kernel provides the
required abstraction to hide low-level
hardware details to system or
application programs ok we have ro
discuss what is kernan next comes the
second part is system library and system
utility ok system libraries are special
functions or programs
using which application programs or
system utilities accesses kernel
features these libraries implements most
of the functionalities of the operating
system and do not require kernel modules
code access rights like when you compare
with windows in Windows we have dot DLL
which is nothing but dynamic link
libraries in Linux we have something all
the libraries which are there to read
the file write the file all this coding
part ok implementation of the most of
the functionalities will be there in the
slash USR slash Lib directory or slash
Lib directory ok then coming to the next
question how to check memory stats and
CPU stats as a Linux admin ok so in
interviews as I said earlier the
questions would be always in tricky
format like can expect questions in
theoretical or you can expect questions
in practical also so you should be well
advanced you should be well prepared for
the interview in the practical part also
so according to this question being the
Linux administrator have you can check
the memory stats and the CPU stats so
there are various commands in Linux here
one such command would be free if you
want to check memory statistics you can
run the command called free - M if you
want to see the size in megabytes or
free - G if you want to see the size in
megabytes and if you want to see the
virtual memory statistics you have a
command called vmstat a linux vm stock
command used to display statistics of
the virtual memory you can also see the
kernel threads the disks system
processes are your blocks interrupts CPU
activity and much more
ok let me explain you this practically
here as I said if you want to see the
memory statistics you can run the
command called free - M according to my
system I just got approx some 10 GB of
RAM because by default and sing in
megabytes your 9008 38 MB out of which
651 is used 8000 714 is free or if you
want to see that in gigabytes you can
run the command free - G if you want to
see that in gigabytes
and when you talk about virtual memory
statistics you have a command called
vmstat - eh okay so in this example
there are six columns here the
significant of the columns are explained
okay in details here as you can see the
first is the processes the memory swap
IO
system and CPU okay you can just find
out with the vmstat - a command you can
also check the dynamic activity of your
system like for example you see I'm
running the command here vmstat - space
6 with this command vmstat execute every
two seconds and stops automatically
after executing 6 intervals see this
practically see the interval here ok
interval is every 2 seconds and it will
stop automatically after 6 intervals
here you can monitor like this virtual
memory statistics ok if you want to see
along with the time format here you run
the command vmstat - P ok 1 comma 5 for
example once you press Enter you can see
along with the time format ok so like
this we have many such options in vmstat
the based on the requirement the based
on the performance and monitoring you
can execute those and coming to the cpu
you have a command called Tsar the
system activity report okay with Tsar -
you you can display the CPU usage see
exactly you can see the CPU stage ok
Tsar - you displays the CP usage for the
current day that was collected until
that point ok if you want to see the
real-time CPU usage the same like vmstat
Tsar - you 1 space 3 ok every once I get
but 3 intervals here you can see ok Tsar
is very very very important command it
is used by every administrator to
monitor the day-to-day activity ok
inside also we have many such arguments
here if you want me to discuss more Tsar
- are to see the memory
free and used I'll give one comma three
you can also see the desert you see the
KB memory free KB memory used and memory
used in percentage you can see all that
with the SAR command also ok this is all
about the system monitoring and the
performance
yes Prakash each and every system in the
network be it windows or beep Linux
operating system every system would be
monitored by using some monitoring tools
for example Nagios Nagios is one such
tool which is used for monitoring and
for performance wise ok like for example
in real time if any such server going
beyond threshold ok according to my
requirement now what I want is I would
like to notifies all the users ok if the
CPU usage threshold crosses like 80
percent ok
I would like to notify all the users if
my CP usage is going beyond 80 percent
threshold I can set all that in the
monitoring tool to just ensure my system
performance and the monitoring is under
threshold ok we have many such
monitoring tools
Nagios we have clone we have many such
monitoring tools ok
yes Prakash nag yours will be hosted on
the server and on the client we have NR
PE which is nothing but Nagios remote
plugin executors which will keep on
communicating with the server and it
will notify if anything goes beyond the
threshold ok so coming to this light so
these are some programs we have just
given in the slide here we have
discussed about the free vmstat to see
the virtual memory statistics and when
you talk about CPU statistics you can
always use the program SAR which is that
input system activity report ok so
give you some basic examples but if you
dig more into this commands you have
many such options okay and the
frequently asked questions in interviews
would be how to reduce or shrink the
size of an LVN partition okay this is a
frequently asked question in interview C
the main advantage if you just compare
between a partition and a logical volume
okay the storage management can be
created like whenever you want to create
a partition partitions can be created by
using the tool called fdisk
but if you create a partition using
fdisk it is the fixed partition size
later it is not possible for us to
modify or resize or shrink the partition
size that flexibility is not available
using fdisk
partitioning tools now using advanced
partitioning tool like a VM which is
called as a logical volume manager we
have a flexibility of either resizing
the logical volume or reducing or
shrinking the size of a logical volume
so let's see practically how you can do
that in Linux operating system I am
talking about advanced partitioning tool
called LVM which is nothing but the
logical volume manager okay
so I've already created a logical volume
manager here as you can see with the
command dfi sin H capital P you can see
for example there is a logical volume
here the logical volume is zoom Linux
and the type of the file system is ext4
the size is 4 point 8 GB and currently
this logical volume is mounted on the
mount point called slash LBM so now I
got a requirement of reducing this
logical volume size okay
in other file systems and running out of
space
I would like to reduce this logical
volume and I want to increase the
logical volume for other file systems so
let's see how exactly we can do that
okay so there is a question from Prakash
so ext4 indicates partitions No ok the
cache like after creating a partition in
Linux operating system we make a 5
- so ext4 is one such kind XD for ext3
when you talk about rhel7 x surfaces the
default file system when you compare
with Windows Windows has a default file
system called NTFS unlike NTFS in Linux
also it is called as ext4 and ext3 file
system see each and every opting system
maintains its standard in order to read
and write data okay
fetch data from disk to RAM or Ram to
hard disk read so unlike windows we have
NTFS in Linux we have ax t3 and ext4 as
a default file system so let me take one
example here there is a logical volume
which is of 5 GB currently I would like
to reduce to 3 GB now okay so that that
2 GB I can accommodate to other file
systems the first thing is online
shrinking is not possible so first you
need to unmount a logical volume the
command is you mount and specify either
the device name or the mount point and
then you can check whether you have any
problem with this particular file system
you run the command E - f ck - f and
specify the device name okay so this is
must ensured before you reduce the
logical volume you just need to scan
your filesystem ok e to F f ck is the
command to check the particular file
system whether you have any problems or
not now once you press enter so exactly
you should find this ok so we have no
problems with this particular file
system now we can reduce by using the
command resize - SS specify the logical
volume name I would like to reduce from
Phi GB to pre GB the current size is 5
GB I would like to reduce to 3 GB and
the remaining 2 GB I would like to
accommodate through other file system
enter now you see the logical volume
size has been reduced okay so now we can
run the command LV reduce - capital L 3
GB and specify your logical volume name
now once you press Enter it will be
reduced to 3 GB now
5gb to 3gb as you can see some
information here and then you can mount
your logical volume to the mount point
called LVM now you can see the logical
volume size now it has been reduced from
5 gb to 3 GB ok this is us you can
reduce or you can shrink the size of a
logical volume okay so this flexibility
is not available in fixed disk
partitions
once you create partition that's it now
you don't have a flexibility of
modifying the partition size or
shrinking the partition size so this is
possible only by using advanced
partitioning tool called lvl which is
nothing but the logical volume manager
there is a question from tracker SH this
means that even the new partition will
have its own route ok
Prakash if you know the Linux standard
filesystem hierarchy standard there
would be one root filesystem under root
you have all the sub directories sub
directories like us are MNT VAT boot
like that have created one directory as
mounted under root ok so we don't have
again another root for this particular
logical volume ok there would be only
one root under root you have all the
logical volumes mounted under it ok so
let's get back to these slides here so
we were discussing about like how to
reduce or shrink the size of our LVM
partition or a logical volume it's a
five-step process first you have to
unmount run SS again run the resize - SS
- 3 GB or whatever required size you
want and then you run the command lv
reduce to reduce the logical volume then
you can mount that particular file
system ok the next question being
explained the functionality of a root
user okay so in computing world the
super user is a special user account
used for system administration depending
on the operating system the actual name
of this account might be root or if we
talk about Windows we call as an
administrator or admin or supervisor in
unix-like computer operating system
root is the conventional name of the
user who has all the rights or
permissions to all the files and
programs in all modes okay
the root user can do many things which
an ordinary user cannot such as changing
the ownerships of files binding to
network ports numbered below thousand 24
so root is the default account every
time Linux is installed okay correct yes
Prakash seabass told you in the
beginning of the session because this is
the operating system which is completely
command oriented yes you can create a
folder in graphical also you have access
to graphical mu yes you can create a
following you can mount to that
particular fine system yes you can do
that okay so there comes your question
again what does CLI and what does GUI
okay see you like there's nothing but
the command-line interface is a console
or x2 based representation in which the
user types the commands to operate the
software or devices the main advantage
of C Liars multiple steps can be
executed by specifying the single
command which is not possible in
graphical mode okay so a GUI which is
nothing but the graphical user interface
is a graphical representation in which
the users can interact with software or
devices through graphical icons okay
simple definition what is CLI and what
is GUI so how can you find out how much
memory used in Linux operating system
again a same question here so how
exactly you can find out there are many
such programs here the command would be
free okay the free command is the most
simple and easy to use command to check
memory usage on Linux operating system
so here is an example free - n or free -
G or you can also cap the contents of
/proc /mm info this will also give you
the complete information about your
memory you can see here the total memory
okay memory in free and memory available
and you see the used in everything here
okay you
use this command also you can just cap
the contents of /proc /mm info okay or
better the simple command would be free
- gee okay what is swap space and what
is the typical size for a swap partition
under the next operating system so this
is also one of the most frequently asked
questions in interviews so what is the
swap space swap space in Linux is used
when the amount of physical RAM physical
memory which is also called as a ram
okay it's full if the system needs more
memory resources and the RAM is full in
active pages in memory are moved to the
swap space why swap space can help
machines with a small amount of RAM it
should not be considered as a
replacement for more RAM okay so people
often get confused between main memory
and swap memory okay so if the CPU
doesn't find free space in the physical
RAM so what CPU does is it just moves
all inactive processes all inactive
pages from the main memory to these wrap
space the sub space which is created on
to the disk okay to ensure it improves
your system performance okay so the
preferred size for swap partition is
twice the amount of physical memory okay
amount of physical memory available on
the system if this is not possible then
the minimum size should be the same as
the amount of memory installed okay swap
is used in normally desktops and laptops
okay not in service because in service
we have equipped with more RAM we have
32gb 64gb 128 GB on those systems there
is no need to create a swap space okay
swap space only for low-end machines
where we don't have enough RAM available
okay so swap is just to improve the
performance of the computer nothing more
okay so any questions any queries please
use a chat window okay and how do you
access partitions under Linux what is
the naming convention
four devices in Linux operating system
okay as you can see here I am running
the program fdisk - l and you see the
first device I got two drives connected
to my Linux system the first drivers
slash dev slash SDA and the second
drivers slash dev slash s DB C the
naming conventions here the conventions
used for sketchy drives in case you have
ID hard drives the first convention
would be slash dev slash HD a HD be
something like that if it got sketchy
drives or SAS drives the naming
conventions would be SDA and s DB and
under this first hard drive here if you
see you have the partition starting from
SDA one - SDH so team the first
partition slash dev slash SDF 1 and the
second partition is de 2 like that ok so
these are the naming conventions used
for your storage devices and this is a
exactly you can access partitions under
Linux operating system ok you see here
ID hard drive starts with H in case you
got sass and CSE starts with S SDA SDB
go on how our hard drives and floppy
drives referred in Linux just am I told
you right s das DB and for floppy drives
it would be FD 0 FD 1 nobody owes nobody
accessing floppy drives but it would be
a question in interviews half floppy
drives would be referred in Linux slash
dev slash FD 0 slash dev slash
FD bun based on the number of
connections you have in your system in
case of hard drives h ta h TB in case of
ID if we have sky C or SAS drives SDA s
DB something like that ok these are the
naming conventions used for floppy
drives and hard drives
similarly in Linux how are names
assigned to different serial ports what
we also called as communication ports
the communication ports are identified
as slash dev / TT bytes s 0 to T device
s 1 SC practically here LS - L / - / T
TV
yes star you see here the communication
ports okay 85 s 0 TT 5 s 1 okay what we
normally called as communication ports
in windows communication Wan
communication - like that ok coming to
the next question asking about printer
ports how exactly you can I defy the
printer ports Ingenix same thing
/ - / LP star LP 0 LP 1 LP through these
are the names to use for printer ports
ok
and the very basic question asked in
interviews is what are the kind of
permissions available in Linux okay what
are the basic file permissions are the
directory permissions available in Linux
so there are basically three levels of
file and directory permissions in Linux
one is read read like users only read
the files or list the directory contents
and the second permission would be right
as the name suggests users can write
information to the file or create files
inside the directories of a subdirectory
and the third permission would be
execute the users can run the file or
look up a specific file within a
directory okay so besides these you can
have a combination of all the three
levels of permissions and two of them or
one of them some combinations read write
execute or read write or read execute
the based on the requirement as an
administrator I can change permissions
okay
basically there are three permissions
the three permissions what we see here
that is read write and execute okay
coming to the next question like how do
you change permissions under Linux so
there is a command called chmod chmod is
a command to change permissions for
files and directories and the
permissions can be changed in two
formats one a symbolic mode another one
would be absolute mode symbolic mode is
nothing but using numbers and absolute
mode is nothing but like using
characters okay like rwx or seven five
five or six four for the Delp of chmod
you can change permissions okay
in order to change ownerships you have a
command like CH own and chgrp in order
to change ownerships for files and
directories okay see here the command
chmod is to change permissions and if
you would like to change the ownerships
you can use the command CH own and chgrp
okay on the left pane you can see some
representation here user groups others
and the permissions are read write and
execute
okay bless is to add permission - is to
revoke permission and is equal to to
overwrite the existing permissions okay
the permissions can be changed in two
different modes symbolic mode and
absolute mode symbolic using like
characters or debris X absolute is using
numbers okay combination of numbers the
read value is for write value is to
execute value is one you can either use
characters or you can use numbers okay
symbolic mode or absolute mode yes
you're right Prakash chmod 7 what is 7
read/write/execute applicable for owner
0 means none permissions applicable for
group 0 again none and this is
applicable for others okay and coming to
the next question what are symbolic
links very interesting question ok
symbolic links so in Linux basically we
have two types of links one is symbolic
link which is also called as the soft
link so symbolic link you can always
compare if you take an example like in
Windows we have shortcuts ok we always
create a desktop shortcuts now if
instead of going to the lengthy part or
navigating into directories into
directories and directories we can
better create a shortcut on the desktop
ok for easy access in and easy way of
interacting with the operating system
similarly in Linux it is called as a
symbolic links or soft links so this is
one special kind of file that points to
another file that gets compared with
Windows red we have shortcuts but please
remember symbolic link does not contain
the data ok symbolic link will not have
the data all the data we have in the
target file but not in the shortcut ok
and what are the benefits of using
symbolic link it just allows instant
access easy of access of application or
a program ok without having to navigate
to multiple directories here let me show
you one practical example here for
example I just want to see the
configuration file of my LAN card
network
interface card the command would be cat
slash EDC slash this config network -
scripts and the configuration file would
be starting like this this is my
configuration file for male LAN card en
p0 s3 see the path here EDC's this
config network - scripts under this
directory we have a file called IFC FG -
e and p 0 f3
now instead what we'll do here I'll
create a symbolic link see Ln - s is a
command l n stands for link now what
type of link I'm creating here I am
creating the symbolic link the bath
would be EDC Siskin fit network -
scripts IFC of g - e np0 s3 for this
particular file i am creating a shortcut
under my root directory with the name
called IFC FG enter the link has been
established now instead of viewing the
land information instead of going to
this lengthy path better I can read from
the shortcut now which one is easy to
access either this one or this from the
shortcut I know it is from the shortcut
C the properties here LS - l / is CFG
because this is exactly pointing to the
original file the target file this is a
linker file the symbolic link file which
is pointing to the target file now
instead of using this lengthy part here
I can better use my shortcut okay so
these are called symbolic links please
remember symbolic link does not contain
the data all the data we have in the
target file we don't have anything over
here okay what are the qualities of
symbolic link now both the files will
have different inode numbers will
discuss about eye notes both files the
source file and the target file will
have different inode numbers will have
different permissions and the different
size also okay soft link will always
have different name same content both
will be having same content but the
different name okay and remember soft
links can be created only for files and
directories when you compare with hard
link hard link can be created only for
files but not for directories
soft links can be created for files and
directories and soft link can cross the
five systems also you can establish a
link between five systems where as hard
link
you cannot span across five systems ok I
hope you got me about symbolic links
here see the qualities of soft links
what we have discussed ok both files
will have different inode numbers
different permissions different size but
the same content but with a different
name ok what are hard links now in
computing a hard link is a directory
entry that Associates a name with a file
on a file system all directory based
file systems must have at least one hard
link giving the original file for each
directory ok the hard link is usually
only used in the file system that allows
more than one hard link for the same
file ok hard links can be created only
for files but not for directories and
hard link
you cannot span across partitions it
should be created within the file system
ok so these are some of the differences
between the symbolic links and hard
links here ok and coming to the next
question like what is the maximum length
of a file name under Linux this is also
one of the important question which is
frequently asked in Linux interviews
Linux has the maximum file length of 255
characters ok for most file systems like
ext3 ext4 in those file systems you can
have a file up to length of 255
characters ok and the maximum path of 4
0 9 6 characters ok so what we have
discussed here the maximum path you can
have up to 4 0 9 6 characters and one
particular filename you can have up to
255 characters okay coming to the next
question which type of files are
prefixed with a dot so generally in
Linux and UNIX operating system if any
objects starts with dot or prefixed with
dot those are called hidden files I am
on the super user home directory if I
want to see all the files here you can
run a command LS -
a including all the files you see one
particular file prefixed with the dot so
this is exactly a hidden file this is a
regular file which is not starting the
dot and this is the file which is
prefixed with dot this is the hidden
file okay and you see a directory also
which is prefixed with dot and you see
the regular directory public is a
regular directory dot cache is the
hidden directory so these files can be
sometimes called as the configuration
files also which holds some important
data if you see one example here cat
Bashar see some aleosis has been
mentioned here for that particular
environment right so mostly in Linux and
UNIX operating system if any objects
begins with dot those are called hidden
files and hidden directories coming to
the next question like what is a virtual
desktop which will desktop like whenever
a user's desktop environment when I talk
about users desktop environment like
icons wallpapers windows like folders
toolbars okay is stored in a remote
server rather than on a local PC then
it's exactly called as a virtual desktop
okay
the desktop virtualization software
separates the physical machine from the
software and presence and isolated
operating system for users desktop
virtualization tools include like
Microsoft Virtual PC VMware Workstation
and parallel Desktop for Mac operating
system the main benefits of desktop
virtualization it just includes like
cost savings because resources can be
shared and allocated as a needed basis
and more efficient use of resources and
energy improved data integrity because
backup is centralized and centralized
administration okay this is about the
virtual desktop but we have discussed
the benefits of virtual desktops okay
and what does the nameless empty
directory represents empty directory as
you know empty directory name serves as
a nameless base for the Linux file
system
deserves as a attachment for other
direct
files drives and devices okay
empty directory how can you create
folders and files using the terminal so
in Linux operating system if you want to
create a directory you can use the
command mkdir and to create files we
have many such programs for example like
VI cat command or you can use graphical
base editors like G edit and edit Pico
nano you have many such programs to
create files okay you even have line
editor screen based editors graphical
base editors to create files in Linux
and UNIX operating system ok but if you
want to create a directory you want to
create a folder use the command mkdir ok
and next question would be what is the
different ways to weave the contents of
the file ok to remove the contents and
file once again we have many such
programs here we have many such inbuilt
Linux programs you can either use
graphical based editors or text based
editors something like cat VI VI M G
edit you have Pico Nano you have many
such programs ok what our environment
variables one important and interesting
question what our environment variables
environment variables are global
settings that control the behavior of a
shell ok software packages installed in
Linux and other processes the path where
the various software's are installed
will be stored as a environment
variables environment variables are used
to pass information into processes that
are spawned from the shell shell
variables and variables that are
contained exclusively within the shell
in which they were set or defined
while interacting with your server
through a shell session there are many
pieces of information that will come
pies to determine its behavior and
access to resources some examples if you
want to see in environment variables
also we have different types we have
system variables and we have user
defined variables in the case if we want
to see the system variables you can run
the command env env is a command to
display all the environment variables
which are set by default with the
operating system okay
one good example of an environment
variable would be path okay this is a
system variable which has the
information about the path of all your
binaries all your executables okay if
you take one more example you see the
environment variable called home what is
the superuser home directory which is
slash route okay these are some examples
here environment variables okay system
variables and user defined variables
what is the functionality of a tab key
in see a light we were discussing above
the features of bash shell right I was
talking about c'mon aliasing command
completion by using tab keys and command
history let me show you practically here
in the current working directory called
slash root I have a file called anaconda
Keys dot CFG let's take one example here
there is a file called anaconda J's dot
C of G if I want to see the contents of
this file I can run a program called
less or more or cat you can do anything
here but I have to type the complete
file named cave dot CFG rather what I
will do here
I'll simple type few letters I'll use
the tab key here automatically the file
name would be completed same cat
anaconda cave store TFG I am not typing
the complete file name I am just using a
few letters and then I am using the tab
keys enter to see the contents of this
particular file similarly there are many
programs in Linux starts with the
character C albeit free here I'll use
the tab key I can see with the C letter
I have 162 possibilities that means I
have 152 programs here you see one such
program called cat if we want to see ca
use the tab key here with the ca we have
this many possibilities here one good
example is scat one good example would
be calendar okay so these are the
features of the bash shell okay too
need a commander to complete a file name
or the directory name okay so please let
me know if you have any questions any
queries
okay what is redirection in Linux is
this is also one of the frequently asked
questions in the next year okay so what
is exactly a redirection so in Linux
redirection is used to pass the output
of one operation as input to another
operation in the same command if you see
one example here as an administrator I
would like to find out like the users
who logged in with my operating system
who currently using my operating system
I can run the command called W with the
W I can have all this information okay
since when my PC is up and running okay
for how long the PCs up and running how
many users are connected and what is the
load average of my computer
and you see the remaining information
here the users the terminal they logged
in from bit system they logged in you
see the login time you see the idle the
J CPU P CPU and what exactly they're
doing what commands they're executing
okay I just want to send this report
through one of my lead manager so that
he can have this information here W and
I would like to save this particular
information in one particular file so
this is exactly called as a redirection
okay so redirection is nothing but which
is used to pass the output of W command
okay output of one operation will be the
input for another operation okay W will
display all this information and this
will pass to this particular file see
catalog all this information has been
passed here this is exactly called as a
redirector the greater than symbol okay
it is called as the redirector the
redirector symbol the greater than
symbol okay
they give one more examples here the cat
file file1 file2 the contents of file1
file2 will be in 5/3 okay if 5/3 already
exist the 5/3 would be overwritten and
if you don't want to overwritten if we
want to append you use double
redirecting to okay
and what is grep so this command is used
for searching for a particular string or
you can also call it as a word searching
for particular word in a text file okay
it also supports pattern based searching
the pattern based searching is done by
including options and parameters in the
command okay one such example is the
command is grab I have a file here the
file called testing in this particular
file I have some words and characters
and numbers here I would like to grab
this word the command is grip the word
you want to search for from the file
called testing see grep the string or
the word you want to search for from the
file called testing here okay
if we want to see with the line on this
you can pass an argument called - n at
line number 17 I have the word called SD
if we want to see the count of the word
you can use an argument called - see I
just have only one bird called SD in the
file called testing the count like this
we have many such arguments and grip
okay
the pattern based searching is also
possible in grep command okay and coming
to the next question like how to
terminate on ongoing process in Linux
here so in Linux every process in Linux
operating system is identified by a UNIX
process which is called as a PID number
okay
PID is nothing but the process ID to
terminate any process we can use the
command kill you can either use the
process name or you can use the process
ID okay you see the command kill and if
you want to terminate all bosses at once
you can use the command kill zero okay
it shouldn't be executed on production
environments kill zero not recommended
command but only for information sake
and how to insert comments in command
prompt so this is a very basic question
carbons are inserted by using the hash
symbol before they come in text you see
any such configuration file for example
if you take /et see slash grab gone
or slash EDC slash profile for example
okay you see the comments here the
comments can be provided by using the
hash symbols so these are the commented
lines and these are called uncommented
lines okay so can you insert several
commands in a single command line entry
if so then house it's a very good
question so this is also called as a
command chaining like you can execute
multiple commands one by one okay by
using a semicolon
okay if I give you one practical example
here the first thing is I would like to
create a directory called directory 1
and then I want to go to this directory
then under this directory would like to
create all this files so this is called
command chaining one after the other the
commands would be executed the first
command is to create a directory and the
second command to execute a directory
under this directory I am creating all
this files with the names called JK and
L ok this is exactly called the series
of commands in a single entry you go to
this directory
see the files has been created here ok
write a command that will display all
the txt files along with its permissions
ok write a command that will display all
the txt files means we have to use the
regular expressions and the common
extension we have to use this dot txt so
I'll use a command LS - al star dot txt
ok so in this particular directory I
don't have anything here that's a dot
txt but this would be the command the
command is LS - al star dot txt it would
display all the files including hidden
files with the properties ok see here I
got Geetha dot txt report dot txt along
with the properties here ok and the next
question would you write a command that
will look for files with dot txt
extension and has the occurrence of the
string a dareka in it ok so we have to
use combination of commands here and
that combination would be I'll give an X
sample here of find /search from the
complete directory here I would like to
search the txt files here from the txt
files
I would like to search for a word
pattern called ed Eureka okay the
combination of commands fear first it
would find all the files which has the
extension txt and then using the
advanced command called X arguments I am
running a command called grep - I I am
searching for the word path and called a
Eureka okay fine
will list all the files with extension
dot PHP and grep is used to search for
the string a Eureka
this is how you can do it same thing how
to find the status of a process if you
want to find the status of a process in
Linux operating system you can run the
command called PS - aux ok so you see
the status here the status of a process
if it is s it is interrupt ability state
that means it is waiting for an event to
complete ok if you find be somewhere
here B that is uninterruptible sleep
state usually it is waiting for ru
operation to complete if it is R that is
a running state if it is Z that is
nothing but the defunct process which is
also called as a zombie process okay the
process which is terminated but not
reaped by its parent if it is T all of
you that is it is a stop the state
either by a job control signal or
anything it can be okay you can also see
some code meaning here you have the
greater than symbol and you have n you
have L there a greater than symbol is
nothing but the process which is of high
priority you see here okay intercept
able sleep state which is of high
priority if it is n here somewhere you
see n here n is nothing but the low
priority if it is L means the process
where the pages have been logged into
memory okay like this you can find out
the process states by using the comma
PS - aux the status of a process you
should look into this column the stages
of the process okay and what is the
command to calculate the size of a
folder this is also one of the important
question and you can find out with the
command D U which is nothing but the
directory usage and with the arguments -
SH of the directory boot you see for the
directory boot it is occupied 135 MB
okay the command bu is to find out the
directory usage of a particular
directory okay how to check the memory
status of the system it is a repeated
question again the command is free - M
or free - G okay same thing and how to
login as root in Linux from the terminal
I have already logged in as a root here
let's say for example I have a user
called ed Eureka this is a user logged
in with the user ID Eureka
I want to gain access to super user okay
I want to log in as root simple I can
run the command sudo su - and I think I
don't have Suda's configured here as
simple run the command su - and then I
need to provide a super user password
then I can login as a root say here
the brunt has been changed from the
dollar sign to the hash prompt dollar
sign is the prompt provided for all
users and the hash prompt is the prompt
only provided for super user ok the
command su su stands for substitute user
with the user ID Eureka
I gained access to the operating system
as root user okay like this you can do
the command su and the next question is
how can you run a Linux program in the
background simultaneously when you start
your Linux server this is a very very
important question and this is
frequently asked in interviews and the
command would be no hop ok the command
is no hop by using the no hop command
the process will run in the background
ok any process which receives the no hop
signal ok will
terminated when you log out the program
okay until then the process could be
running in the background all the time
okay please remember the command would
be no hub okay
by default it just placed the process in
the background which demand tracks
events on your computer events on a
Linux system okay we have the demons
like syslog B we have domestic arses log
we have so many tracking events in Linux
and UNIX operating system okay the
answer should be syslog B or ours this
lock okay so what is partial back so
partial backup is nothing but a type of
backup where the complete operating
system is not taken as a backup okay
only certain files certain folders have
been backed up but not the complete file
system that is exactly called as a
partial back ok so when you select only
some portion of a directory okay in a
single partition that is exactly called
as a partial by partial backup is not
the complete backup only certain files
and folders have been backed up okay so
in Linux we have many such backup
programs like tar cbio dump restore ok
using this you can take a back either
complete file system backup or the
selected files and folders based on the
requirement and next question would be I
note very very important one
inode is nothing but the contents of any
file will be stored in data blocks
whereas information about that file will
be stored in I note so when we talk
about data data has two parts the
contents the contents will be stored in
the data blocks and information about
the file what we called as metadata that
metadata will be there in the inode ok
so information of what type of
information is stored in I note like the
file size the permissions the user
ownership the group ownership the link
count then exactly the file was last
accessed or last modified ok all that
you can see in I note so an inode number
points to an inode table which is the
data structure that stores all that
information
the size of the file the device ID the
user ID group ID the file mode
permissions everything okay
so which command is used to set a
processor intensive job to execute less
CPU time very very important question
and the answer would be the command nice
andrey nice okay these are the programs
which are used to set a priority okay
you can change the process priority
using nice and renoise programs so nice
command will launch the process with an
user-defined scheduling priority three
nice command will modify the scheduling
priority of a running process okay
so the process scheduling priority
ranges from minus 20 to 19 keep this in
mind this is very important okay the
process scheduling priority range from
minus 20 to 19 we also call this as a
nice value okay a nice value of minus 20
represents the highest priority and the
nice value of 19 represents the least
priority of a process okay if I show you
one practical example here let me just
create one particular file cat
redirecting file one I am creating a
file okay so in the back end when
process would be invoked because I'm
creating a file here let me open other
session here let me show you by just
running the command psi n SL and the
process name called cat ok see this
particular process by default you see
the nice value the nice value is d is 0
whenever you submit a process by default
every process will have a nice value 0
ok see you similarly if I submit a
program with the less priority for
example minus 10 ok minus 10 cat
redirecting file 1 here now you see the
nice value let me open the other sir
this one let me recall the same command
now you see the nice body for cat
command the next value is 10
ok the nice value ranges from minus 20 -
19 - 20 being the high
preppy and 19 Bing d-list pratik see I
launched a program with a nice value
with the least value called
10 okay if you want to launch a program
with the highest priority
I'll give minus 10 okay do not get
confused here it is not - - it is minus
10 now you see now it is minus 10 okay
that means this command requires more
CPU time okay similarly unlike nice if
there is already a running process that
can be changed by using the command
called
renoise okay the command is real nice -
n the priority you want okay and you can
give the process name or the process ID
you can do with the renoise 3 nice can
be used if the program is aldeen used ok
very important programs see here the
priority ranges from minus 20 to 19 - 20
being the highest and 19 being the
lowest priority and the last question is
like what our shadow passwords and half
they are enabled so shadow passwords are
given for better system security every
users passwords will be stored in slash
EDC / password file and by implementing
shadow passwords all passwords will be
stored in encrypted format in a new file
called / z DC / shadow ok the passwords
in the original file will then be
replaced with X in multi-user
environments it is very important to use
a shadow passwords ok if I give one
small example like in Linux we have two
such database files here one database
file will have information about users
and other database file will have
information about users passwords / EDC
/ shadow ok we have two such database
files here which keeps information about
users and users passwords okay so this
is to improve the security in earlier
days in earlier versions of Linux and
UNIX operating system there used to be
only one particular file which has
everything user and the users file see
an example here
example calls password converts
cat / etc' / password used to have
everything like this in one particular
file you have uses the users passwords
and everything but the problem is this
particular file is readable by everyone
see you
/ ATC / password is owned by root he got
full permissions here even others got
read permissions okay which does not
impose security on this particular file
okay so that is the reason there are two
database files maintained one is EDC
password and EDC shadow finds now you
see the shadow file is only has three
permissions for root for others you see
we have none permissions okay so this is
us we have two database files your EDC
password which has information about
users and EPC shadow which has
information about users passwords okay
not only pass which we also have
information about the password age also
for how long we can use this password
when password would be expired all this
information can be used in EPC shadow
fight okay so this is all about Linux
interview I hope the session is useful
for everyone in case if you have any
questions any queries you can always ask
me I hope you enjoyed listening to this
video please be kind enough to like it
and you can comment any of your doubts
and queries and we will reply to them at
the earliest do look out for more videos
in our playlist and subscribe to our
ready Rica challenge learn more happy
learning
hi everybody English Papa welcome to
today's video so today's video is on the
beautiful arch merge Linux this is the
latest version that has been released
now I've been wanting to look at this
for a few days but not being able to
because of work
this is arch merge 6 go to the home page
this is your home page it's basically
the developers take on an arch build so
it's building based off of Arch Linux
it's got a choice of desktops I've gone
for the standard xfce which is fantastic
but you can have XFC for open box or i3
straight out the get-go and the
developer is put an absolute metric
asked ton of work into it and I have to
say to be honest and to be totally
utterly fair this is probably one of the
most beautiful and complete arch spins
out the box
obviously I've put my own take on it
with my wallpaper I've stuck the arch
logo on there I've got the corner the
conky's it's applied out the box and
I've changed the icon theme to make it
look and feel consistent I've had to do
very very little it runs like the
proverbial muck off a stick this has
replaced Sparky Linux on my SSD on my
main machine is it faster than Sparky
Linux the answer is a resounding yes
Sparky Linux is fast this is faster
without a shadow of a day out all the
software that I wanted to install in
news came straight down it was
effortless the only
that I had was steam funnily enough I
couldn't get steamed to work but of
course that was to be fair to watch
merge that was my own stupidity because
I installed my Nvidia drivers which by
the way are blind in and the version of
him Vidya drivers as you can see that
it's using this 3d 4.9 which is
absolutely bang up to date though you
don't get any newer than that but of
course the problem that I had with steam
was I forgot because I'm on a 64-bit
system I didn't install the 32-bit
OpenGL and video libraries easy done on
this operating system so if you're gonna
install steam make sure you install the
32-bit OpenGL libraries otherwise your
steam won't run that is the only issue
I've had with the operating system and
you could argue it's an issue of
incompetence by me not the operating
system and nevertheless I did want to
make you all aware of that what else can
I say about arch merge it's divine it's
super fast it's super quick the guy is
done an absolute button of theming on it
so that out the box you have not got to
grope around the internet it's
absolutely gorgeous by design it comes
with an unbelievable amount of software
out the box and yet most of it is really
cold including the old retro term you
know hey check that out out Gorge is
that you gotta love it in here you gotta
love it um but to be fair to watch merge
the reason I love it so much is because
the software that it's applied with is
not bloat it's not stuff that you're
never ever going to use by and large
everything that is supplied out the box
at some stage or another
you will use and you know I mean the guy
really has sat down and gone through it
he even provides you with Google
sorry chromium Firefox and Vivaldi out
the box and the reason that is so cool
is how on earth can he pick what browser
you want to use if the one you want to
use isn't there just uninstall these and
gonna install the one that you want
multimedia you get lollipop as well
which is nice good for you I've
installed OBS which again is the latest
version came straight down and you know
he just runs with his speed that's Big
Island you know it makes Sparkle and it
looks pedestrian and Sparky is no slouch
now we get down to the nitty-gritty
would I recommend this for new users
absolutely not yeah and I'll tell you
why because I don't think and I don't
feel that there is enough hand-holding
with this distribution for a brand new
user
I would heartily recommend you use
Manjaro over arch merch if you are brand
new to arch for the simple reason that
Manjaro has a lot more hand-holding out
the box for argument's sake if you
install Steam on Manjaro it installs all
the bits for you it's as simple as that
now if you have a look at the software
manager which is really comprehensive
and just divine
it's split up into groups and you've got
categories you've got groups you've got
repositories which is also split into
groups obviously you've got installed
and you've got your updates
this gooey package manager is absolutely
fantastic it's so easy to use it's very
logical it encompasses all the different
repositories and bodies on you can't go
wrong is fantastic
I actually prefer it to the pallet one
that comes with something like Manjaro
and you can quickly and easily search
for whatever you want and find it fast
but if we just have a look at nvidia for
argument's sake excuse me
if you install the standalone video well
it will bring down the 340 xx utilities
of course I didn't install Nvidia
drivers that way I went to the command
line under the sudo space Pat man -
capital s and video and it brought down
the latest ones but then you've got to
go through here and install all the
other bits and pieces like the 32-bit
libraries that you want manually in
order to get your steam to work now with
something like Manjaro he does all that
automatically so that's why I personally
believe Manjaro is better for a new user
now that being said as I say I think
arch merge is probably one of the most
beautifully and well thought-out arch
spins out of the box I dread to think
how much time you would have to spend
doing this yourself because as I say all
kudos and respect to the developer he
you know you don't just get a couple of
themes AUSA's here you know you get a
metric Astin which is just fantastic and
they are they are all work really really
well and you get a button of fonts again
in various different colors so you can
choose a wallpaper and create your theme
around the wallpaper without having to
install anything
it's absolutely terrific it really
really is
you have a metric astern of conky's and
that's all done via conky Zen and
conquers in his life conky manager but
with our East lockers stripped down
version of conky manager that just
allows you to choose your conky but
again you've got a wonderful array of
conky's out-of-the-box everybody should
be able to find something that suits
their style etc and you can yourself
just gone for the simple one which I
think it just fits the look and feel of
my personal arch merge beautiful
absolutely beautiful I really do Thrun
or is your final manager but of course
you can change that to anything you want
as I say it does run with a speed that
is absolutely delightful everything just
loads up instantly it's very assured
there's no stuttering there's no lag in
I don't really know what else to say
other than this is probably one of the
best arch distros out there that you can
get personally for me is it an arch user
I think it's far way and above better
than Manjaro it's not had as much
interfere and she's still kind of using
a lot of the arch stuff without it being
interfered with and for me that's very
very satisfying for a lot of people it
won't be but for me it is I thoroughly
100% appreciate the word that the
developers done on the operating system
and the only thing I can really say to
the guy is congratulations because
divine doesn't even begin to cover it
I would 100% heartily recommend this to
anybody and everybody who wants to have
a go with arch linux but doesn't want to
build a system themselves due to time
constraints or maybe due to lack of
familiarity or perhaps knowledge on the
arch operating system
but if you're comfortable or vaguely
familiar with arch I can see a lot of
people installed no excuse me ah yeah
manfully gotta love it
[Music]
I can see a lot of people installing
this on their computer and the distro
hopping days are done now
what are the downsides of this operating
system well I'm afraid the downsides are
the age-old downsides it's based on arch
an arch as you know can break so do be
prepared to fix what breaks whenever it
breaks and you know you don't break that
often it's not your worst nightmare but
when it does break it's usually fairly
fairly serious I think fortunately for
yourselves the developer seams are
really switched on guy and I'm sure that
via his youtube channel or via the
support forums etc you'll be able to get
pretty much all the help and support
that you want so if you go over to the
forum you can see there's a super forum
set up so you know that's really about
it from me possibly one of the best arts
distributions out there at the minute
slick fast absolutely beautiful and it
really is the sort of operating system
that you install configure get it out
you want it and leave it the hell alone
and I think you should find it will
serve you very very well arch is a
finicky operating system if you start
abusing it messing about with it you're
gonna bust it it's that simple so as you
can see we're using the 4.13 dot 3-1
arch kernel which is just amazing and
it's using virtually no resources cold
or unrecorded a video and it's currently
using 800 mega RAM which is absolutely
bugger all I've got 8 gig on here and as
I say I actually think this is possibly
one of the most amazing ever arch
distributions I really do it's just
stunning so there you go everybody
that's a quick look around arch merch
I've not doing it justice because it
does come with an awful lot of software
and utilities out the box but I'm sure
other youtubers will cover that needless
to say
I heartily recommend this to everybody
of anybody on the planet who wants an
arch based operating system but doesn't
want to build it themselves and I don't
think you'll find a better-looking or
better thought-out arch distro out of
the box of course if you don't like xfce
you can go for a plain open box you can
go for I three or of course you can
install any desktop that you want this
your choice but bear in mind this is
kind of showcased with the operating
system and window manager is it supposed
to be out of the box just divine I mean
everything's just set up right out of
the box absolutely bang-on it really is
so kudos to the developer
congratulations it's certainly been
worth the wait
I was very excited to try it out and the
one thing I haven't been with Arch merge
is disappointed I've been excited and
thrilled
there you go everybody thanks for
watching please rate comment subscribe
from the videos up I will see you for
another wicked English bar video
[Music]
there are many good reasons to switch
from your current Windows or Mac
operating system to lists the new Linux
distributions are extremely well
polished looks beautiful out-of-the-box
and offers a lot of flexibility in terms
of user interfaces customization and
tweaking the operating system itself but
before you make the switch there are a
few things that you should know
so here guys what's up welcome to XPS
heck I am vineeth and these are five
things that you should know before
switching to the first and probably the
most important is the selection of right
Linux distribution for you Linux kernel
being free and open source anybody with
a keen computer knowledge can build his
or her own Linux distribution by using
the kernel and combining it with few
packages like display server user
interface and application software
therefore there are hundreds of Linux
distribution out there hence choosing
the right Linux distribution is
extremely important and will be a
significant factor in deciding your
overall experience with Linux operating
system some Linux distributions are made
with specific audience or user in mind
for example Arch Linux or Fedora Linux
offers cutting edge technology with
latest software while Debian prefer
stability over incorporating new
software's some Linux distribution gives
support for five years while many others
offer support for only a year but if you
are unsure I would suggest you try bun 2
or Linux Mint at the start but you do
not have to limit yourself to these
operating system if you do not like it
you can always try something else that
works best for you
second is hardware compatibility this is
probably the biggest reason why most of
the new user switch back to the old
operating system few years back Linux
distribution was terrible at
hardware compatibility nobody wants to
be in a situation where after installing
a new operating system you realize that
the trackpad or Wi-Fi doesn't work
because there are no drivers available
therefore I highly recommend that before
you install a Linux distribution first
check out the distribution website and
look for the hardware compatibility with
your laptop desktop or whatever device
you're installing it on you can also go
to Linux
- drivers comm and search for your
distribution
Ubuntu is by far the most hardware
compatible distribution that I have
found their Hardware certified website
also helps quite a lot in searching for
your specific device but I'm not saying
that other distributions are not good
you just have to spend a little time on
the website to make sure Hardware on
your computer is compatible third is the
software repository and package managers
there is no use of installing a
distribution if it doesn't have
essential applications like a good
office suit email client music player
etc just because it's free it will not
serve any real purpose every Linux
distribution has its own repository or
sort of a warehouse of software's from
where you can download and install a
software on your computer the
application for installing removing or
updating the software is called package
manager
so both the number of packages in your
repository and the package manager is
extremely important for many people
installing a software from a command
line terminal can be a little too much
to ask for though nowadays majority of
Linux distribution comes with GUI based
package managers so before installing
find out if the distribution comes with
a GUI based package manager and more
importantly if the distribution has all
the software's that you need in its
repository distributions like Ubuntu
Linux Mint or Debian has the most number
of software's available in its
repository you can find all this
information in the distribution website
also nowadays many distribution has
pre-installed software that allows you
to run Windows program on Linux I have
reviewed for such software's in my
previous video you can
check that out by clicking on the top
right corner of your screen I'll also
post the link of the video in the
description below at number four is the
desktop environment or essentially the
user interface let's offer a ton of
options as far as desktop environment or
the look and feel of the desktop course
almost all winners distribution has a
primary desktop environment there are
distributions like fedora that have
multiple installation images based on
various desktop environment which are
called spins for example fedora has an
except C LXDE gnome KDE mate and
cinnamon sprints apart from difference
in look and feel desktop environment
also differs in amount of customization
and tweaks that can be done to the
desktop it also influences if the system
will be light or heavy on system
resources the four main desktop
environments are gnome KDE xf c and lxd
l xt being the lightest on system
resources while KD has the maximum
amount of customization that can be done
there are also few Linux distribution
for example Zorin OS that ships with a
user interface similar to Windows so
that a user switching from these
operating system feels familiar while
using the computer last but definitely
not the least is the community or the
support behind the project a strong
community is extremely important and can
help you a lot in case you face any
issue with the distribution if the
distribution has a strong community they
help you instantly with any issue or has
a community forum where you can post
your issues since Linux distributions
are free of cost there is no guarantee
that the distribution will not close or
shut down from working all together in
near future Debian has a long history
behind it and is sort of the grand old
man of Linux distribution for a long
time it has defined what a Linux
distribution is Ubuntu Fedora and dip in
OS has a strong support from their
corporate owners so definitely look for
these things when choosing a Linux
distribution for you alright so that was
all now that you are aware of these
things I would suggest spend some time
go through the distribution website
search for all this information
and then cry a Linux distribution that
suits best for you I'm sure you will
definitely have a good experience and
enjoy this open-source world of Linux
systems thank you guys for watching this
video if you like this video kindly
press the like button if you have any
comment or suggestion do type that in in
the comment box and if you want to see
more such videos kindly subscribe to my
youtube channel thank you again for
watching and I'll see you next time
hey guys my name is Vardhan and I'll be
your instructor for today so on Bradford
rekha I welcome you all to this webinar
on Linux tutorial and in today's session
I'm going to give you a complete
overview of flux okay so it doesn't
matter if you're a beginner or if you
have good knowledge about your nuts but
I'm going to teach you concepts that you
can take away home and you can execute
for yourself so guys before I get
started let me just take up with
confirmation from you people I hope you
can hear my voice and see my screen if
that's the case please put that in the
chat box and I'll get started ok so I'm
getting a couple of acknowledgement here
where we said you can hear my voice and
see my screen and so does our cache I'm
the same can be said for even now a
month alright so guys it seems like it's
all fine let's get started with the
session all right now before I er get
start with the first topic let me just
show you the agenda and tell you what
we're going to cover trip okay so this
is the agenda and I'll be covering the
topics in this flow okay first I'll talk
about the birth of Linux and tell you
why they became popular all right and
then I talked with Willie's
distributions of Linux
okay so Linux is basically a kernel most
of the people think that next is an
operating system in itself well that's
not the case so I'll talk about the
various versions of Linux
okay the way the operating systems of
fallenness I will talk about those
things and then we'll get started with
the hands-on right after that topic okay
so in the hands-on we have I've
categorized this into different tough
phases where you know I will talk about
the basic Linux commands first and then
I will show you how to work with files
and directories and then I will show you
how to add and delete users you know you
will learn all those administration
aspects and finally there will be one
networking aspect which I will cover in
Linux okay so there is something called
as SSH okay
SSH stands for secure shell and this is
used for communication
supposing you want to communicate with
the remote host right when I say remote
host it means a system that's located
remotely which you don't have the
physical access to so that can run
between how will you access that machine
with an SSH so I will talk about all
these things and yes so if you guys have
any doubt or any problems during the
session please put that in the chat box
and I'll answer them right away all
right guys cool Robbie is it fine all
right great
Robbie
says that he's neutral nuts or greater
be no problem that's exactly the target
audience for this webinar right so you
know this is going to be a complete
basic tutorial and you know for anyone
that's going to get start with the nuts
for little bit college students or
professionals who are absolutely new
right so we're all used to using Windows
or Mac right so most of the people in
here would have just use Windows because
it's cheaper and it's better but Linux
is something that is a software
developers favorite operating system
right so that's why you know there is so
much hype and so much demand for inerts
professionals and Linux administrators
and if you want in order to get started
with a career in that domain then we can
get started from this tutorial from
today all right guys
okay so without wasting much time let's
go to the first topic and that is why
the deluxe becomes popular well before I
talk about you know where is it became
popular let's look at the birth of nuts
how things start off okay so back in
1969 there was this person called you
know in fact they were two people
dentistry and Ken Thompson right so
they're working in the AT&amp;T Bell Labs
and what they did was they created this
C programming right so we're all aware
of programming right so we are all aware
of these basic programming languages
right so C is one of the most basic and
one of the most effective and the root
of all the other programming languages
so that is C and it was them that
developed C and the UNIX operating
system so that was what happened in 1969
okay and then in the decade that
followed okay so basically in the 1970s
people started developing or
contributing to the development of these
two things it's okay so they started
contributing to the development of the C
programming language and the UNIX
operating system so in our session we'll
discuss more on UNIX operating system
and since it's about Linux right so UNIX
is basically the mother of pearl Linux
because
Linux is based on UNIX operating system
okay I'll tell you how that's the case
in some more time but that's why they
are starting off with your operating
system okay so I am NOT going to cover
about C and getting back to our slides
so it says growth of X because of open
source collaboration and there was
commercial sale of Unix
now what this meant is that you know the
product that Dennis Ritchie and Ken
Thompson created right that those were
you know something really attractive
they were some amazing software and
operating systems that would you know
power machines and
Computers now what this meant was you
know they had to be developed to become
even better right so they made it
open-source it was when we say open so
that means I was freely available to use
by anyone so anybody any person any
scientist or any engineer or anybody
could just get access to the source code
and start improving that source code and
if they feel that they have improved the
software in any way then they can just
you know give that code back to the
developers so basically it was all about
collaborated development so that's what
happened with UNIX operating systems in
the 70s many hippies the scientists they
all collaborated together wrote their
own code their own version of UNIX
operating system and contributed to the
development of UNIX operating system and
since AT&amp;T they were the ones who built
UNIX or the ones they were responsible
for founding UNIX they were the ones
that again out of benefit they got help
from other people for you know
developing the operating system and what
they didn't own was they made it a
business right so they made money of
that by you know sodding commercial sale
of UNIX and this was something that did
not go down well with many people and
this did not go down well with the other
developers and scientists because it was
their effort which contributed to the
growth of UNIX but however they are not
getting any benefit so you know UNIX
because ideally there was making money
out of somebody else's work so that's
what happened in the 1970s okay and then
came the 1980s which was it is more
different
so instead of you know buying you know
UNIX on AT&amp;T and you know having two
different versions of Unix
one was the FreeBSD and the other one
was the PDA TNT version of UNIX so
enough for you to go for them company
started developing their own UNIX so IBM
came up with their own UNIX version
called the AIX Solaris came up with
their own version called the Sun
operating system and HP came up with
their own version of Ewing scoring hp-ux
so there are other versions also like
POSIX and all these things now since
there are many versions right many
flavors and many dialects of the same
UNIX operating system it was becoming a
little problematic because each of the
dialects would be a little different so
the IBM's UNIX would be different from
HP's UNIX and Solaris UNIX or it would
be different from POSIX okay so each of
them would be different but however
they're all based on the same thing so
it was unnecessary or you know confusion
there with so many versions of Unix so
that is when this
person called Richard Stallman came up
with something called as the GNU project
okay so I told you earlier that the
nurse is just a colonel and not an
operating system on its own so what this
person did was you know he came up with
something called as a free software
movement so he wanted something like you
know back in families when everyone
could collaborate and work on the same
one single operating system like that he
tried to bring back that era and this
free software movement office this idea
led to the GNU project so the GNU
project was all about people being able
to access an operating system for free
and you know developing the operating
system so that's what this led to and
that's what we call even today right so
GNU is basically the operating system
and the deluxe is the kernel that powers
the operating system so a combination of
these two is what results in one of the
distributions of Linux so we have
multiple distributions like Ubuntu cent
OS read at debian fedora all these
things so all these things are flavors a
combination of one of the operating
systems and B you know a Linux kernel
okay so that's what they are so this is
what happened in the 1980s and then you
know mid to late nineteen eighties was
when research solvent came into the
picture and he came up with the junior
project where people could develop and
use three operating system so that's
what happened here and the event that
happened after this is wrote as a result
of today's world ok so after that then
in the 1990s
so probably 1991 or 1992 that was when
this person caught in a store was was
still back in college at that time he
put the next kernel source code online
so he was trying to used the POSIX
version with one hardware called 386 and
he thought that it's compatible only
with that hardware and so he put the
source code online for anyone to use and
later they found out that it could be
used with the GNU and that's when the
whole thing gained popularity so that's
when we you know came up with something
called as the Linux plus GNU this whole
term of having a kernel plus this
operating system and you have to work
together so that's what happened here
all right so guys are that's how Linux
was born okay
now without wasting any more time let me
go to the next slide and talk about the
various distributions of Linux so I told
you that there are many versions like
Ubuntu Centaurus also let's talk about
those and
when we talk about distributions the
most important and the most famous ones
are those of red hat enterprise linux
fedora and debian okay so these three
are primarily different companies and on
the prices well debian is basically not
one company it's kind of you know let's
say a group of developers developing
this version of Linux okay this version
of Linux and the Ubuntu version so that
is what Debian is and the Red Hat has
basically an author prize it's a company
that is commercially selling the Linux
distribution okay and it's probably the
most used and most popular of them all
why because they are very stable they
are very reliable and as it's written
your servers and workstations right so
it's the preferred Linux distribution
for servers and workstations there at
that Enterprise Linux so they have a
free version so that's called the
Centaurs and today's demonstration I'll
be showing it to you on send to SMB ok
so they have that and they have various
other distributions in fact even fedora
right that which we are going to talk
about next even in Federer is a company
that's funded by e Red Hat itself so
it's again one of the variations of Red
Hat and Federer has its own set of you
know distributions around it and that's
about the federal distribution then
comes the Debian so this again I spoke
about Debian so Debian is you know the
Linux distribution that is developed
with the help of many developers so this
is not developed for commercial purpose
it's basically free and open source
software and anybody with the skills can
start contributing to this software and
you have many other distributions okay
so these are among the important and the
commercial ones and if you are talking
about some of the free distribution
which people can use then they are able
to linux mint
sent OS open SUSE gen 2 and many more
okay so there are almost hundred Linux
distributions today and you can use any
of them you know if you're getting start
with the nuts then I would suggest you
to either start off with Ubuntu or
CentOS because
CentOS is you know something that's
really reliable and that's really fast
ok and Ubuntu is the most popular Linux
distribution out there ok and so I read
somewhere that you bulldoze a third most
used operating system okay so that's
what we'll two is all about
of course it's not as fast as sent to us
but still able to is you know a very
popular and very handy tool and the Knox
mint is the other
version which can be used for playing
movies and listening to music because
this gives you more of Windows like
interface so that's what Linux Mint is
so we have various distributions like
this and yeah so guys are any doubts I
mean some of you told me that they know
you people are newcomers and haven't
started with Alena so you can start off
with one of these distributions mention
your you can either go for the Red Hat
Enterprise nuts or the fedora or the
Debian or the other operating systems
which are based on them ok so the center
is here it is based on Red Hat
Enterprise Linux okay so the red right
we call them red so they have the free
version that they provide for enterprise
users or is that of centaurs and fedora
again for that matter of fact you know
they have multiple distributions under
them under their name and Debian other
people who are the founders of opal - ok
so open to is a distribution that is
based on Debian and since open - is so
popular there are different versions of
Google - itself right there are other
distributions like X equal to or add one
to all these things and they are the
other versions of Ubuntu so that's about
the different Linux distributions and
you guys can probably you know if you're
newcomers then I would suggest you to go
for a 0.2% OS like I said earlier so it
seems like people are all good okay so
I'm getting a couple of four comments
from people all right great so let me go
to the next slide then ok so now we are
in this light and let's talk about the
features of Lenexa okay so the linux
features you know when we say features
it's basically those compared to the
other operating systems compared to
Windows and compared to Mac okay so
compare to them how does the next
perform and you know what are the
benefits with Linux and first of all we
have this feature of you know the
updates being very easy to be performed
if you have any software in your
operating system or if it's the
operating system itself which you want
to update then it's really easier than
us it's just going to be one command
that you need to run and you know you
can run that command from the terminal
okay for those guys who don't know what
a terminal is so let me just open my
Linux version for you what a terminal is
okay so this is my Centaurs version of
linux alright and then you have
different options here right so the
terminal that you see at this is what I
was talking about
so when you open the terminal there is
no other window that opens okay now this
is the command-line interface so when I
say command-line interface this is where
I cannot put in my commands and I can
get my software or my kernel to listen
to those commands and perform actions by
creating a process for those commands so
the whole benefit of Linux is this CLI
because the CLI is really helpful if you
are going for Windows or something you
have a very good GUI all right so even
in deluxe you have a GUI so let me show
you the GUI aspect so similar to Windows
you can just go to the computer and you
can go to file system you can open
various other folders and directories so
you have multiple directories and
folders you are right
so I mean that trees are basically
folders folders is what you call in
Windows and here you call them
directories so I can go into any of
these you know directories and I can
close them like this I can access any of
these directories I can access any
software or anything that's installed
anywhere so the not basically provides a
GUI - ok but the thing with Linux is
that you also have a terminal right this
terminal is basically a command and
interface where you can you know put in
your commands and you can get the
software to behave the way you want to
you can run certain commands you can
install software you can run programs
you can run codes so that's what we
advantage with the CLI is and this base
the reason why it's very popular among
all these software developers ok so I
told you earlier that software
developers the favorite tool right on us
so that's because Linux is the free
version of UNIX and it's also you know
possible to develop and create so many
programs so that's the thing with the
nuts so that's why it's so popular so
back in the flight I told you that it
was very easy to perform updates right
so those updates can be you know easily
performed by just running a few commands
here you know by writing one single
command I can update a particular
software
supposing I have Java installed in my
system then I can just write a command
for updating that I can just say sudo
yum
update and the package negative Java I
can just put the Java version if it's
any other language or if it's any other
software then I can put that software
name over here and update the
application so that's how simple and
that's how easy you know it is to update
software's over here so I was talking
about this aspect so let me go back to
the slides and talk about the other
features okay
so that was how updates can be easily
performed and then another feature is
that the software is free you don't have
to pay for Linux so because Windows of
course you all know that Windows is paid
you can't you know have a pirated
version if you're caught having a pirate
version you will be fined of course home
you know desktop users and home users
don't really have that problem because
there are no routine checks but
companies cannot use a pirated version
of Windows because if there are audits
they can come and seize the computers
and put our heavy fine on the company so
that's what we save and the free
software licensing is there and then ask
because you don't have to have any
license you can just you know get all
the folks in your company to work on
Linux for free so that's the free
software licensing aspect and then you
have the access to source code right so
when we say access to source code I told
you that back in the seventies people
could just collaborate together and
develop the operating system so that is
what I am talking about here so then at
the source code for running this OS the
basically the Ubuntu or the Centaurs the
source code is available to you and you
can customize it and you can you know
change it the way you want you can make
it behave the way you want to and if
it's really good be sure that you've
added then you can also share your
discoveries and your you know features
with other people with other fellow
developers you can do all these things
so you have complete you know access to
the source code and you have complete
freedom with what your OS can do and how
it behaves but the same thing cannot be
set for Windows right so Windows you
cannot change it completely you don't
get access to the source code at all and
you can't change all the features the
way you want to because that's
proprietary tool and though it's a
program to behave in one way and if you
try changing too many things then your
you know windows will report so that's
what is going to happen so that's about
the access to source code feature and
then we have another feature that has
multiple distributions so I spoke about
the different distribution in the
previous slide
the basic distributions are those of Red
Hat Debian or Fedora right so you have
various versions of them itself you have
different flavors in the Red Hat and we
have different ones in the Debian and
again Fedora has a lot of other
distributions further many distributions
are based on them so you have so many
options and if you don't like we want B
distributions then you can work on
another distribution right so if you
don't like Center is because you know
you don't get support for everything
then you can use Ubuntu okay it is the
most popular operating system and it has
support for almost every application and
every software so you can use that but
if you are unhappy with the speed of
Ubuntu then you can probably switch to
send to s so you have all that
flexibility and all this flexibly
without any cost
okay no cost with respect to energy or
having to learn something new because
all these are the nuts at the end of the
day the commands will be the same almost
98% of commands will be the same there
are just going to be minor differences
in the commands that will be executed in
the different distributions but yeah 98%
of them would be the same you want our
tough for transition time also you will
have you know you can gain so many
benefits by using Linux and the last but
not the least right so this feature is
probably the highlight of Linux so it is
better malware protection
so when we say better malla protection
we say that it's the ultimate okay in
Windows if you people would have noticed
that you need an anti-virus because it's
prone to viruses and attacks and bugs
and all these things so people can
easily hack in your system right so the
same thing cannot you know happen within
the nuts you don't need an anti-virus at
all Genesis completely antivirus free
okay 100 persons you don't need an
anti-virus and in fact you don't even
have an anti-virus but of course it
doesn't mean that you know it's
completely secure also security
something that's really good but it's
developing in Linux but it's definitely
better than Windows right so you can be
sure that no one's going to hack your
system so easily so that's what
Linux is all about so guys that brings
us to the end of this light of nice
features okay and if you guys have you
know any doubts even now about Linux and
how good Knox is then that should have
been clarified and put to rest by now
okay so I am NOT got any question from
Department and if you get have any
doubts please put them in the chat box
and I'll answer them all right okay so
moving on so enough with the theory now
let's read a big let's start with our
hands on okay so I'm going to show you
how to run commands and how to do
various other things with the send to
its operating system okay so first of
all the first part of this hands-on
session is going to be about you know an
introduction to the terminal and the
various commands and the basic commands
and how to browse through the different
directories okay so we use come on like
PWD clear LS and CD commands okay now
let me go to my sent OS okay in case I
forgot to mention it earlier then guys I
am using a VM here okay so I'm running
my Windows operating system on my laptop
and I have a ghost box installed and in
the VirtualBox have instantiated my
Linux virtual machine okay so my Linux
distribution here is centaurs let me
just show you another thing okay so this
is the VirtualBox that I was talking
about this is what I'm running in my
Windows and I have you know multiple
options so I can choose any VM that I
want to so this is the VirtualBox and
all these are the different VMs that we
have in my ghost box so currently I'm
running this VM called master ok and
later on I'll be running on even this VM
called sleep now I'll be doing these two
for showing you how SSH works so I told
you in the agenda slide that I'll you
know get to remote machines to access
each other right so for that purpose I
need these two beams and of course both
are sent to us and yeah as you can see
the information it says that it a little
bit sent over system I've called it or
named it master and this one is named it
as safe so similarly I have the Ubuntu
also so the window 64-bit is this so let
me just turn on Ubuntu and show you how
cool to looks like okay so let this wait
for some time
okay so let me just enter the past for
the user
and here we are this is my boon to OS
right so even this is being hosted on
the same VirtualBox so I am kind of
running to different virtual machines at
the same time okay so we have options to
browse the Internet and I can open the
terminal or the terminal option is right
here in my to operating system okay so I
just want to show you the Ubuntu
operating system so let me just quickly
turn it off and go back to my centaurs
and start running a couple of commands
okay so I was showing you the Centaurs
right so Logan okay so this is my
terminal and first of all the main
difference that you people need to
understand between Windows and Linux is
that in Windows because you know the
storing files or folders it was all in
drives okay so we had C Drive we had a D
Drive we had many more drives like that
and we could store our documents all in
those folders okay but in Linux it's a
little different from how Windows works
in Linux we have something called as the
root directory okay so we have file
system here right so basically whatever
folders or documents or directories you
have everything can be accessed from the
filesystem when I click go on a
filesystem then you have notice that I
got a /ur okay so this forward slash
basically means root okay this means I
am in the root directory and in the root
directory every document and every
folder is present in this root directory
okay
now whether it is mean storing some kind
of you know important files or mp3s or
videos then everything can be accessed
from the root so you can think of this
something like a tree hierarchical
structure okay so you have one root and
all the other branches and all the
leaves and all those things you can
convert them to be the different
directories and the files inside so they
can all be accessed from the root and if
you want me to show you where one not
okay so now this is your desktop right
so you have the different icons here on
each of these icon are four different
operation so you have it records home
and then you have a terminal and you
have an LMS so this is a folder and this
is a document okay so reading is a
document so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to browse to the desktop
folder so from root directory if you go
to this folder called our home right so
under home directory you have other
option you have a trick on using okay so
now if I go to the add record directory
then you have other options of desktop
documents downloads music and all these
things so if I go to desktop then in
this directory you have the files and
the different things are apparent on my
desktop so LMS was a folder that was
present readme this is a file that was
present the terminal was present my
desktop so that is available here so
Eclipse IDE is present here so all this
was present on my desktop so I get the
same thing accessed from here and
similarly if you are downloading
something from the internet then that
can get downloaded to this folder the
Downloads folder right so we have a
Documents folder similarly you have a
videos folder music folder so all these
files or folders will be stored in some
place right so they will be stored in
your slash home slash ed Rekha okay if
you are downloading them and if not if
it's going to be soft as what you're
gonna install then you can install them
in any other dietary or in fact most of
the software's are you install they'll
be by default that get installed in this
directory in the bin directory right so
you have the bin directory you have the
Lib directory which lab will list of all
the different libraries that the OS
would use and then you have the s then
we have all these things right so they
can all be accessed from here and that's
about accessing them from the GUI aspect
okay in the same thing can be done
through the terminal okay now let me go
to my terminal and show you how that is
done
so this is my terminal okay this is a
command-line interface where I cannot
put in my commands and when those
commands are executed by the kernel or
by the shell then program will get a
Twitter and some kind of features will
run all right okay guys so before I get
started let me go back to my slides and
show you what are the different basic
commands that I want to run first of all
okay so as you can see it has nice
provides the C alight to communicate
with the operating system right so that
is a terminal that I showed you the CLI
is called the terminal and the CLI is
basically it's better for tasks which
cannot be performed with the GUI you
know I showed you the concept of for
going to different directories and
different folders right so it was little
stuff I had to go to go through multiple
directories so through the GUI that's
one kind of drawback
you will have to spend a lot of time uh
navigating but with the CLI if you it's
just one command and you can access the
directory that you want to that's the
advantage with the CLI
okay and this is just one basic example
that I am giving you there are many more
advanced concepts and topics which is
not very easy to perform with the help
of a GUI so in those places you can just
use the CLI to perform those tasks and
the CI is also much faster in quite a
few ways okay so that's the advantage
with the CLI and running the commands
basically the first and foremost you
have the PWD okay now this stands for
print working directory okay and what it
does is it displays the current working
directory of the terminal okay then
there is this forward slash and I told
you that the four slash represents the
root directory okay
now let me go to the terminal and show
you these two things so right now we are
in the home directory okay now let me
just type it down let me just put PWD
and when I put PW it prints the current
working directory okay the presently
working directory so that is home slash
ed Rekha now if I go to the computer and
the file system and home and inside this
ed Rekha then what you see here right so
this is the folder that are mastering
through my terminal because the present
working directory is set to this folder
okay now if I want to we know say I want
to change the directory it means I want
to change from this particular
folder to a different folder so there
are other options like desktop folder
and Documents folder right if I want to
move to one of these folders then how
will I do it using the terminal so I'm
just going to show you how that is done
you want to minimize this a little bit
yeah the command for that is CD space
the name of the folder supposing I want
to go to the desktop folder then I can
just put the SK t.o.p alright and when I
put enter then I'm inside this folder so
earlier you had you saw this option
right so this represent the directory
Amin okay I was in fact in the home
directory and right now amoled desktop
directory so desktop is the directory
inside bomb and if I want to you know
let's down the contents in the desktop
then I can run the LS command okay so
when I put LS it basically lists down
the different folders and the different
files are appended and that directory
okay so we have the eclipse we have LMS
which is a folder we have grid me which
is another file we have all these things
okay so let me just go to the Desktop
folder and show you the same okay we
have the terminal we have the LMS which
is a folder and similarly going back to
the terminal if I want to enter this
Linux folder then I can again you know
just say CD and space LMS okay when I do
the Sam inside this folder okay now if I
put LS then I have the list of the
folders or documents are present in this
LMS folder okay
so LS is basically the command to list
down the folders or files in that
directory and yeah CD space the file
name or the directory name would move
you to that particular directory now
that is the same thing that I have
discussed in this slide here also okay
so I spoke about the present working
directory which displays the current
directory that your terminal is in and
then you have the root directory from
where all your directories or folders
are marked right so everything can be
accessed from the root directory so that
is this and then you have something
called as the echo command you have the
su and the sudo commands okay
Adi does something a little advanced so
before I show this let me show you the
clear command let me explain the clear
command okay
now getting back to my terminal when I
type clear the whole
CLI is cleared right my terminal is
clear so whatever command around
previously those are not present anymore
but what happens is those commands they
don't get deleted or something
they are just cool down so as you can
see they are still present here so when
I scroll down what happens is I know it
just makes sure that the other documents
or the other Commander specified earlier
those are all hidden and showed
something new so that's what happens
here okay so that is this now I told you
that you know by giving CD you can go to
the directory or the photo that's the
present working directory right but how
about going back to the previous
directory so basically from arica folder
to go desktop we click on this and then
we entered this folder right so from
this directory by clicking on my lms you
go to a different directory right so you
go in here but using the gy you can just
click on the cross mark here and you can
exit that directory but how about you're
doing that with help of the terminal how
do you do it here so to do that we have
the option called CD space to period
marks period marks for a full stop so
that's what we call it right dot so if
you have two dots after CD this means
you want to navigate to the previous
directory so we are currently in the LMS
and when I have enter and back to the
desktop folder right the desktop
directory now again if I give the same
command again then from a desktop I need
to go back to this at the record
directory correct so there we go
tilde symbol here it represents that we
are in the your home directory okay so
the home directory is basically I can
also access the home directory by just
giving a ceiling and enter okay that I
can do it from any other directory so
let's say I am just doing an LS and I'm
saying directory to downloads ok do WN l
o 80s ok so just you gotta remember to
give the exact name of the folder or the
directory that you want to travel to so
only then it will work otherwise we just
give do W it won't really work ok so
after this if you give enter then you go
to the Downloads folder and do we have
anything inside downloads no we don't
have any other folder or directory under
download so now let's try going to the
home directory from here straight away
ok so I initially told you that by
having two period Damas after you know
CD you go to the previous directory in
that path right so ended of that if I
just give a CD ok and if I go Banta then
I will straight away go to the home
directory and this
with respect to any directory no matter
in which I am in so if I just give CD
then we go to the home directory okay so
that's what the benefit with CD
commander's you can give Siri to move to
any directory okay so I have a question
here from Shashikant and Sasha kaun is
asking me should be absolute CD and LS
every time it seems really complicated
so sure she can't you don't need to
really do that because I was just about
to get to that point okay if you want to
go to a different directory or a
different folder you don't need to give
CD and LS every time okay so L is
basically only for you to figure out or
understand what are the different
directories inside a particular
directory okay so if I know the path
then I can just feed it right away in
one command and enter that directory now
let's say I am currently in the CD
directory so this is CD so this is my
home directory okay now if I click on
desktop and if I click on LMS and then
you have another folder here okay you
have HBase okay now supposing I want to
go to any of these directories from my
terminal then I don't have to put CD
three different times and followed by LS
and then go to those directories I can
just specify this thing in this one
command so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to say CD space or since right now
we are in the home directory I need to
give desktop ok now one more thing which
I want to show your people is there is
this option of a tab on your keyboard
right when you give tap then the command
here will be auto filled right the
option will be auto filled so let me
explain that again
so I'm just going to go back so in the
your home directory right so you have
got different options you have desktop
and documents so what I'm going to show
you is by clicking on Siri and space and
then if I just type three or four
characters of desc
okay I want to go to this directory but
I've just typed the SK okay now if I
click on tab then the remaining
characters of that particular option is
already filled okay it gets Auto filled
so that is what the tap would do
budgeting on tap will get out of it so
similarly under desktop you have the
option of elements right so I'll just
put L and if I press tab the remaining
will get out of it correct and inside
the elements you have different that we
saw that the average base we have hive
and all these things
so let me go there and show you what are
the different directories are there so
we have HBase hive MapReduce and Uzi
okay now let's go the terminal again
suppose you want to go to Uzis directory
okay now when I just click on capital oh
and if I click on tab then it kind of
auto fills the directory okay but in
case let's take the example of hi our
HBase over here okay now since both
start with hedge I'm going to type hedge
and if I click on tab that doesn't work
okay it gives me further options of
HBase and I so that is because there are
more than one options for you know
starting with heads right the more than
one folders or directories that start
with it so that's why you're getting
further options that's why it's on
auto-filling but if you see the second
title here is sub B and the second
tackle here is I so if you either give B
and now if you press tab then HBase is
what is going to be picked up okay
because after H and B there's only the
only option is off edge base there is no
other folder that has H B as the first
letters of the name so similarly if i
just type IV and if I do tab then I get
out of it so things like that so since
our drum machine moves towards the HBase
directory I'm just going to say HBase
okay
now inside the HBase I want to go to one
of the deities in here so let's say we
go to advantage based practice okay now
for that if you want to go there then
you just go to give this okay so this is
your complete path to access that
particular folder
I'm gonna go enter then I am in the
advanced HBase practicals module nine
okay so I'm in this particular folder or
this particular directory so that is
what you can do with the help of feeding
of path after see so she can't this was
your doubt right so is it clear okay so
she can says yes all right so see this
was the issue that you had right you had
concerns that you had to put in commands
multiple times multiple times you have
to put CD and LS so that's not needed
right so you can just feed the path if
you know what you can just feed the path
in just one command and you can execute
that so similar to this you have
software's and other you know other
things which can be installed other
programs so they can be executed and run
with just one skill command and it
eliminates a lot of confusion
you eye is really complicated in that
way try to take sort of time and lot of
sexuality and permission is needed but
with the help of the CLI and be terminal
then this job is simpler okay so now if
I want to go back to my home directory
I'm just going to click on CD and put
enter okay so that is this now let me go
back to my slides you just want to close
all these folders okay now going back to
my slides I showed you the print working
directory command and I show you the
route directory and actually the clear
okay so the echo and the pseudo commands
is something that I do not show you but
I also spoke about the LS and the CD
commands right so what I'm going to do
is before I go into details of CD and LS
right I'm going to show you the echo
command and the pseudo user okay now
going back to my terminal the echo
command right so what is the echo
command so what is the echo command echo
command is something that writes its
arguments to standard output so when we
say arguments it means whatever we type
after echo we'll type echo space and
forward by that whatever we write so
that will be specified to standard
output and when you say standard output
it is the output will be displayed by
the CLI so in your terminal whatever
output you get so we'll get specified to
that particular output okay now let me
show you a practical example only then
you will be able to understand that so
let's just clear the screen so another
shortcut to clear the screen is ctrl L
okay if not you can just give the clear
command like this okay this will show
your screen otherwise you can just give
ctrl + L which will again and I'll just
clear the screen keep the keyboard
shortcut okay so I told you that I was
talking about the echo command so when I
say echo and if I go enter then there is
nothing that is displayed
but if I say echo and say hi see what
the output talking so when we execute
this command this was the output that
came back it is high and if I say echo
hi my name is
bargain when I say this then whatever
was specified as arguments right so this
was basically specified as arguments to
this come
so the argument is specified as the
output this is a takeaway from the
definition definition was basically that
whatever the argument is that is a
specified to standard output so that's
what it happens so that's what comes
here so this is one thing and in fact
there is another functionality also now
we were all aware of the concept of four
variables right so we can assign some
kind of value to a variable and we can
also print that without the echo command
now let's say that we have a variable X
okay and let's give it a value 100 okay
so now if I just say echo dollar X then
the value that is stored in this
variable right that we printed because
echo something that is going to print
the argument to standard output okay it
will display the value that is present
over here so if it's just a string then
that will be printed and if it's a
variable that I am specifying then even
that we printed so the difference
between the variable and the string is
this dollar okay now if I just give echo
dollar X then I've set 100 value to X
right so that 100 would be printed here
so I can audio hundred is printed but
the same thing if I give echo X without
the dollar then see what's printed it is
X which is predicted so that is the
difference between the string and a
variable okay so you can now have again
a variable called name or you can have a
variable called garden and you can store
the value of 10 okay but if you want the
batter to be displayed then you go to
append dollar before the variable name
okay so that is about the echo command
and in fact there are lot of advantages
with this command and I will talk about
the other features and the other places
where this is used later during the
session but till then this kind of
introduction is enough for now okay so
going back to the slides what else do I
have
okay so we have the su command correct
so as a test su it is used to switch to
the root user okay so that use Super
User permissions can be used to execute
commands all right and then you have su
username used to switch to a different
user and then you have sudo command
which excuse only that particular
command with the root or superuser
privileges now what these three what
they essentially mean is that you get
what permissions so if I go back to my
terminal so if you guys remember then I
logged into ascend doors with the adraka
user right so that is displayed here
also so it has the edrick act localhost
right so as is the user name of this
account and similarly you have something
called as the root user okay this is my
user and then you have the root user and
what the root user is is the root user
gives you a lot of permissions so that's
like the ultimate super user of this
particular system so basically if there
is any folder that cannot be accessed by
my user ok my user name is Ed Rekha and
if I do not have the pump shion's to
access that particular directory or that
particular folder then we can use the
root user because root has the ultimate
privileges so any command that is
executed with the root user then that
will be executed
ok so because root has all the
privileges it has all the permissions so
that's what the root user is and you
know there are certain functionalities
which need the su user or the root users
or Commission and I will show you all
those things later but for now what we
need to understand is by just giving su
then you can switch to the root user
okay and it ask you the password of
course you want to know what is the
password for your root user and when you
give the password you will be logged in
as a root user so you are not at Eureka
anymore okay and as you can see here you
are root at the rate low close so this
is the hostname and this is my username
okay root so earlier you may notice that
there was a dollar symbol okay but now
it is the hash
so this basically this hash tag
represents that we are inside the root
user and we are accessing they are you
know executing commands as a root user
so that's what it means and if you want
to get out or exit the root user then
you can just type exit and give enter so
now we are back as yourself now we are
going to be executing commands as a
trigger user okay and another thing that
you can do is if you have multiple users
again if you want to switch to one on
the other users then you can also give
the su command and bor switch to the
user supposing the user name is let's
say ABC is the user name then I can just
give su space ABC okay now since I don't
have any user you know a user account
called ABC it will probably throw me an
error or tell me that it does not exist
okay but the point
that you need to notice that if you have
any user then you can just switch to
that user from the terminal by using the
s you cannot okay s your space the name
of the user out so again later during
the section there is a topic about
creating and deleting user so at that
time I will show you how you can switch
to another user from the terminal okay
so let's park the personal for later
because it's a little complicated if I
tell you that right now
so I think I've covered pretty much
everything about su and there is one
other command called pseudo okay so sudo
basically lets you execute a particular
command as a root user so when I give a
sudo and LS then what happens is this
particular command LS command which will
list down all the other directories or
folders in the current working directory
right so this will be executed as a root
user okay
so similarly so earlier I excluded the
su command and I give a password for
that the difference between the two is
that with the help of sudo then only
that particular command will be executed
as a root user but whereas with su then
the entire set of commands after that
will be executed as the root user as you
will be logged in as root user itself so
let me just show to you again so this
was the LS command which are executed as
a pseudo user okay as a pseudo user or
as a root user
but if I just give su and if I give the
password then I enter and I can enter
the same details okay I can put the same
command LS as a root user so basically
the kind of result I get will be the
same okay but it's just the difference
is that the user that will be executing
that particular command so I hope this
clears your doubt okay so I'm just going
to say exit and knock cure the screen
and if I go back to my slides I have
this read out the definition so sudo
basically execute only that particular
command with the root or the superuser
privileges okay and when you give photo
user name you can switch to a different
user and when you give su you can switch
to the root user so that's what I showed
you the differences between the three
you first give su and then it'll ask you
for the password you specify the
password and then you'll be logged in as
root user and then you can execute your
commands you can dispute any numbers
come as you want to and then you can
exit
that particular root access and then
come come out of it and if you want to
execute another command with the root
permission okay and if it's just one
comment which you want execute then you
can just give sudo and then you can put
your command that right so I will talk
about these things later but for now
going into understand is the basics and
these are the basics okay the pvw d the
echo the su commands because all these
things come in handy when you go to the
advanced concepts so going on to the
next slide we have the LS commands here
okay I showed you one command that is
what happens when you just put the LS
command so now there are different
options that you can use along with the
LS right so basically a let's stand for
listing all the contents in the current
working directory
okay and if I go back to my slides right
now we are in the home directory and if
I give Alice here it lists down all the
directories that are present in my home
directory okay so let me scroll the
screen and execute that again LS so
right now we have desktop downloads and
music so these three are some folders we
have document with another folder all
these things are folders and these are
documents okay documents and files so
these are the directories or folders
these are the document or files
so this is what you get when you execute
the LS command now if you go to the
slides then you will notice that you
have certain options that you can type
along with the LS so when you say LS
path then you can now you know probably
list down the list of contents that is
there in that particular path okay let
me go back to the terminal if I say LS
and if I say the path where I want to
listen the contents okay right now I
might be in the home directory okay but
what if I want to list down the contents
that are present in the here desktop
directory then at that time I can use LS
path so what I'll do is I can just put
desktop okay and inside desktop there
are many other photos if you remember
there was one folder called LM s so if I
put LM s okay this is the path right so
I have given LS followed by the path
desktop slash LMS now if I go and talk
then the folders or the directories are
to be present in the
particular directory or this folder will
be displayed to me that is the HBase
hive Map Reduce
you see and ping so that is what LS and
path does now if you go to the slides
there are other options right so these
options they can be also referred to as
Flags
so there is a - followed by one letter
character okay there's one character
here that is L there is a quatre called
a there is another set of scatters your
author so all these are called options
or they are also called as flag we refer
to them as L flag or a flag or author
flag all these things okay now if you
give the L slag what happens is it lists
down all the contents similar to just
giving LS but along with its owner
settings its permissions and the
timestamp so when we say owner settings
permissions and time stamp it is with
respect to the particular folder inside
that directory so let me show you an
example of that so by your giving LS you
have all the different folders that are
present in this root directory okay now
if I give LS - L through the same
directories or same documents are listed
down here but we have additional options
right so we have additional information
so these are the set of permissions that
a particular user has we have different
we have user name and we have the host
name we have the memory size we have the
date the timestamp and all these things
followed by the name of the file so if
you see desktop desktop or something it
was created on this day and this is the
size of it and all these things okay so
it is called the long format I will
explain each of these permissions and
what each of these stands for what one
stands for what is a Drakkar here and
what is it Rekha here I'll explain the
all these things in some more time
because before I explain those things
there are other commands which I want to
show with respect to LS right so in LS
other than LS minus L you have the LS
minus a you have LS also okay so let's
see what happens when we give the a flag
it should ideally show you the list of
all the hidden contents in the specified
directory okay and then if it saw if
you're using the author flag then it
will list down all the contents in that
directory along with its owner correct
so let's try executing LS - a first so
when we give a all the hidden
directories also should be displayed so
as you can see these were
the other folders which were not visible
when I gave this LS because LS this
shows the list of contents that are
available in the GUI right so in the GUI
if you go to network and if you go to
desktop from the GUI aspect you only get
to see these okay so these are the
regular files are not hidden but of
course there are going to be many hidden
and those can be accessed by the
terminal by giving the LS - a command
okay so that is what this help in doing
now if I girls LS and if I use the
author flag now see what happens you
have the author also so instead of
having the user name and the host name
here you have the author of that
particular document so if this is the
particular folder or file order document
then who is the author for that it is a
Drake up because I am the user right so
the author name will be present over
here followed by the size and the
timestamp it was created and all these
things and we get the list of contents
for all the directories or folders which
are present in that particular directory
so that's what LS does okay so guys that
is about the author flag and in case we
want to use a compilation of these flags
and even that as possible so I showed
you earlier that there is this LS - L
flag and then there is the LS - a flag
right so - a displays all the hidden
contents in that directory so I let me
use a combination of them so let me say
LS - L and a since there are two flags
which I want to use then I am just going
to use one - symbol for - two flags so
when I do this then all the hidden
contents will also be displayed along
with their extended long format okay so
those are the different folders or
directories happens in this home
directory of mine okay so that is the
compilation of LS - Ln LS - a so we saw
a combination and again so similarly if
either of those flags if I use the
hyphen s flag then it will sort that
entire list by the size okay and let me
show you an example of that so we use
the LS - la right now if I use s over
here it will sort this entire list of
for directories with the size the higher
the the follow the larger size will be
on top and the one
the smallest size will be at the bottom
so as you can see here it was all
jumbled with this is basically the size
lock right so this is basically for this
size block you are if you see the
previous M and I just ran LS - la then
it was in a different order but since I
ran LS - la and capital S this has
sorted the result in as per the size of
the blocks of the folders
the folder is size is a displayed first
and one with the lowest is a spread last
so that about the LS - s so there is one
more command that I want to show you
which can be executed with the help of
CLS command okay we executed the LS - L
a and s flags right so we executed this
one previously now what if you want to
store these details so whatever the
output here was if you want to store it
into another file how will you do that
we have an option for that okay and that
is this symbol greater than symbol okay
it's called the Direction flag input
output Direction flag and by using this
flag whatever the result or the output
of the command that comes right prior to
this symbol those will be stored in the
file that precedes this symbol so let's
say that you know I want to create a new
file I'm going to create that okay I am
currently in the home directory right so
let's not execute it here what I'm going
to say is that means first change
directory to documents okay now in here
of course I don't think there are any
hidden document 0 so there are no photos
or so what I'm going to do is LS minus l
KS ok and I'm going to run the this
command at the home slash ed rekha
directory ok I'm going to basically run
the same LS so basically the same
results I will run them by you're
specifying this directory and I will be
storing this file inside my new file ok
now let me name that file file1 dot txt
okay now the reason I moved to this
directory is because I can store the
files in this directory okay
had I not moved to the veteran her I
guess executed this LS minor delay s
followed by this direction then what
would have happened is it has created
this new file in my home directory
itself okay so if I give an enter here
there is a new file that would have been
created under my your documents directly
okay now when I run LS inside documents
there was no folder but now let's run LS
so now you can see that there's a new
file is created and that is called file
one dot txt now that is because I used
this direction symbol nothing but the
greater than symbol and when I do this
whatever result that gets generated from
this command right from these options on
these flags those will be stored in a
new file and the file a needs to be
specified over here
okay so that was a wrong commander I
used it's not LS so what I'm going to do
is let me just view that file okay so to
view this particular file or any file we
have to use the VI editor or we have to
use a G edit editor or we can use the
cat command okay
now the most common one is the VI editor
so let's just execute the VI and open
this file from here okay and the reason
that this LS what file did not execute
us because it lists down the files right
and this is a wrong dosage PI did a
mistake by saying LS and by not doing a
directory so I have used VI instead
that's why I did not come but anyways if
I give VI and file name then that file
opens right so the files are created and
this file has the output that was
displayed earlier okay so basically
whatever was generated by the LS and a
Flags of LS so that result instead of
coming in the terminal it got stored in
a different file okay now let's just
exit this VI file and explain the same
thing so what you saw inside this file
file1 dot exe the content is the same as
this one okay so we're on the same
command LS - LS but it is that instead
of getting the output in the terminal we
gave a direction command over here to
save it in a different file and we
stored this file in the home slash at a
record directory okay now supposing if I
want to store this file in the same
directory then even that can be done
okay it's not a big deal so this is the
command right so if I remove the path
over here then what happens is what are
the output gets that gets generated from
this option and this command that will
be sued in the file on dot txt inside my
home directory okay if I am inside the
documents directory right so let me just
go back one part so right now I am
inside the home directory right so here
if I execute that command okay then a
new file will be created with the name
file 1 dot exe and it will have the same
details so I've done that and let's see
what are the contents of that file ok so
it's nice right so you can now bow in
this way whatever output that you have
that you can directly store it into
another file so it's very handy your
command anybody
and the option and I'll talk about more
such advantages like this later okay so
for now I just wanted to show you how
the direction works so getting back to
my slides I think I've shown you how to
work with the LS command and in the
previous slide I showed you the basic
commands with respect to present working
directory and clear directory and the
sudo and the echo commands so I've done
with LS also and now I'm going to show
you how to work with the CD directory so
some of the city directories I showed
you earlier also I showed you how to
switch to a new directory so when you
type CD it will just change the
directory to the home directory okay so
the slash home slash a Drakkar okay note
that is my home directory my home
directory is set to that path so if I go
free it will go to that particular home
directory and similarly if I you know
give even CD and space tilde symbol as
you can see your there even this command
will change the directory to the home
directory okay but however if you give
CD space this slash this will change it
to the root directory so change the
current directly to the root directory
that is because the forward slash here
it represents the route I told you this
number of times earlier okay and if
there's any other path or any other
folder which you want to move to then
you start from the root so you specify
the absolute address right
you start from the root you say slash
and then you put the folder name you
again say slash and then you put the
next folder name so it is similar to
that the first four slash represents the
root directory and the subsequent
slashes are to differentiate between the
different parent and the subdirectories
so that's what they are so this will
change you to the root directory and
then you have the CD - double period
marks okay - period symbols and when you
give the CD space dot right if you give
two dots CD space dot dot then will
change to parent directory so supposing
I'm inside the desktop directory so
desktops parent is home directory right
so it will change me to the home
directory but supposing if I was inside
let's say the family site or that record
or that receipt and if c-span was B then
by running see
space dot dot from the C directory then
it will switch me to the pan directory
which is B so that's what this does and
then we have one row command here that
is CD within me quotation marks we have
some kind of path now this is the useful
at times when your folder name or your
dietary name has two words okay so if
you have towards then if you have a
space in between then the space will be
considered as an argument
okay so terminal reconsider that has an
argument so if you want to switch to a
document in that kind of situation you
know or if you want to switch to a
directory which has a space or a
document which has a space in the middle
so in that situation you can use a
single quotation mark or double
quotation mark okay so it's you know you
also have to comfort to switch to double
quotation marks so I'll explore all
these things and show you okay so first
I will show you the the series tilde
then with the forward slash then with
the dot mark this of course I showed you
earlier also and then I'll show you how
to switch to another folder with gnome
it is having two different names with a
space in the middle so going back to my
route so right now we are inside the
home directory itself so if I give CD -
desktop okay now when here we have my
other directories and if I do CD and LMS
I am inside the LMS directory okay now
from here if I go CD and if I use the
tilde option right then it will switch
me to the root directory so C so the
tilde symbol earlier okay so the circle
a symbol represents a root and since I
set the change directory to traditional
this which implies a root it basically
decodes it as a change directory to the
root directory so when I did that I have
automatically switched to root directory
while over here it was LMS so similarly
if you are in the elements directory and
if you also just press serine right if
you just give this command even this
will switch you to the root directory
so basically CD and CD space tilde they
are both the same but however if you
give CD with the forward slash then it
will switch you to the root directory so
when I just enter as you can see I am in
the root directory so if I go LS over
here I have a list of
directories which I showed you earlier
so in India file system right so yeah
and so inside your file system if you
open this folder then you have the root
directory so inside this directory you
have a home monitor icon this is where
desktop and documents are all pressed as
a subdirectory of for this parent
directory okay so this is the root
directory where everything is stored so
any document or any folder in your in
operating system they can be referred or
they can be accessed from this root
directory okay now going back to the
terminal let me show you an example of
that I've already moved to the root
directory now let me say CD then and
okay we have this so now when I give CD
space belt then it moved me to the bin
folder inside my root directory so I ran
the root directory edit an LS which
listed down the list of folders inside
my root directory these were the options
been boot depth these are all the
different folders and when I said to
change directory to build it shifted me
or it moved me to this particular folder
okay inside the root directory so right
now I am in the bin directory and inside
the bin directory
I ran the LS command which basically
means listening down all the contents
whether its documents or whether it's
folders or directories all those would
be listed down ok so these are the list
of all those contents in the bin
directory okay now that we're in bin let
me go back to my root directory by
giving double dot okay so from bin it
again I go back to my root directory
okay so this four slash represents root
directory like I told you earlier and if
I two LS then I am back to this
directory where we have been boot dev
and EDC home and all these things so now
what I'm going to do is so now that I'm
in the root directory now let me say
change directory to home and inside home
there is a trick I want to go to add
record and edit record let's go to
desktop and then there is LMS okay and
in here if I do LS then lead up the list
of folders here okay now I am going to
change directory to HBase and if I do an
LS over here then you can see that there
one particular folder called advantage
based practicals module nine okay if I
now just say Siri and if I put adv space
HBase then I will not be able to
autofill the option okay
that's because the terminal or the CLI
is not able to recognize this particular
command because it is a space over here
okay so it treats adv as a separate
folder but since it's not able to find
any folder here as a TV that is the
problem okay let me show you where the
GUI what it looks like so we are in the
desktop and inside LMS we have HBase
internet HBase we have advanced database
practical so this was what I was talking
about this particular folder correct
so let me minimize this for you okay
now this is a classic situation of when
you need to use the double quotation
mark or single quotation mark okay now
if I just put the same name like say adv
and edge base then it can auto filter
automatically right so even the addition
mark ends over here so that indicates
that this is another folder that's
present so if I you know just put enter
then it will change my directory to this
particular folder so that is what the
quotation mark does so when I do enter
then I am inside this folder and 2ls I
have the list of photos and directories
inside this are ones edgeways practicals
photo alright guys so now I'm just going
to do a CD to my home directory and I'm
here and that was about the different CD
commands that are available which I want
to show you okay so let me just go back
to my slides now and go to the next
slide I showed you all the different
commands here okay so the next set of
commands I'm going to talk about are
those of for cat grep sort and pipe
commands okay
so let's first go to the next slide and
start off with chat command okay
so when would we use the cat command
nice so it's pretty obvious right from
what it's written here it says when you
are working with files that time you can
use the cat command so the cat command
it is basically used to display the
content of the text files and
net several files into one so what this
means is if I have a particular you know
I our text file so earlier we created
one text file having all the file
permissions right so if I have that kind
of a text file and if I want to display
the content of that extra and then I can
use the cat command I can say cat and if
I give the file name then that content
would be displayed so when I use only
the cat command with one file name it's
very similar to how the VI command works
or how the Nano command books right so
it will display the content in the
terminal itself correct but the
difference with cat command is that with
cat I can listen the content of multiple
files so it's not just one okay I can
have I can even display I can specify
your three different file names and if I
put enter then the content of falls
three five to be displayed in my
terminal the same thing won't happen
with VI so if I say VI then only that
particular files
kourin will be displayed so same thing
with our nano right so let me just go to
the terminal and show you an example of
the cat command
so right now we are in the CD directory
let me just maximize this okay
now clear the screen present working
directory is the home slash head record
directory this is the rome directory and
from here let me go to documents okay if
I do an LS there is this file one dot
txt which I created earlier correct so
this was where the different file
permissions were present right so if I
do cat - file name and if I could enter
then I get the list of the contents of
that particular file so in that file
there are only these three rows because
it was the latest updated the functions
that I specified in the file one dot exe
okay so guys I told you that you can
enter details were filed by using the
direction command right so that is the
greater than symbol so I'm going to use
that kind of a symbol over here and I'll
create a new file by adding details by
using that command okay so initially it
was I use the SS - L but the same I'll
use the chat command itself and say I'm
going to give the direction symbol here
and I've done with that let me give the
remember new file let's save file - dot
txt now when I hit enter the command is
not executed
completely okay so I'm inside this place
where I can enter the text so it's
basically going to create a new file
okay now whatever text I enter here that
will be sold inside this file so let's
say hi my name is warden and if I can't
I can go to the next line and here let's
say
welcome to
the next
tutorial by
Rekha okay now if I want to you know
just add these two lines to this
particular file called file 2 or txt
then I can press control D now okay by
pressing ctrl D I come back to my
command line so what this command
basically does is in this cat command
would Allah created a new file file dot
txt and the text that we entered below
it right this will be entered inside
this text so if I do that file - dot txt
then whatever I typed earlier that got
saved in this file now similarly if you
see the file 1 dot txt the contents are
these ok so this is the content of for
this one and this is the content of this
file now I told you that with the help
of cat command you can display the
content of two different files so let me
show you that option ok I'm going to say
file owned or txt and then I'm going to
say it twice - dot txt so in this way I
am going to basically display two files
cat I am going to display file1 and
file2 when I go enter first the file to
content will be displayed and then the
file to contents or the lines and file
to dot txt will be displayed right so
first these are the permission that are
there in the first file and then this
was what was there in the second file
alright guys now this brings us to
another important concept of how to
append files so c80 basically stands for
concatenated right so that's the most
important option so if you want to
concatenate a particular file with you
know some kind of lines then I show you
how that is done by creating a new file
what I did was I I create a new file
file - dot exe and I concatenated these
lines they took this particular file so
if I just give cat and if I give file 1
dot txt and if I give double marks okay
so double direction marks which is
nothing but the greater than symbol okay
we also call it direction knots so if
you give 500 T X Y and followed by this
if you give file to dot txt then what's
going to happen is whatever contents are
there and file one those will get
appended or can
cata needed to this file to dot txt okay
so in my file dot txt we have these two
lines okay hi my name is Relkin and
welcome to nut stroll by Erica and file
one has these three lines
so basically when I enter now there will
be a file to in which there will be
extra lines okay so let me do a cat file
to rot txt so as you can see initially
when I ran my cat five who got txt over
here
I had only these two lines right but now
after using the bi-directional symbol
okay the direction symbol what has
happened is I have three extra lines so
it says hi my name is Wharton welcome to
Linux tutorial by Rekha after that I
have the permissions which was present
in the previous file okay so that's what
happens here okay in fact exactly four
other nice thanks for pointing that out
human
so Haman you know who's another person
or section he said that there are four
lines in the 500x see actually he is
correct so total eight so this is the
first line and these are the other three
lines so you can also see that from here
okay so the first time when I ran cat
500 txt right I first got total eight
this was the first line and after that I
got the functions okay so this is the
first line and then you have the list of
the other content so when we ran the LS
minus L the total number of entries were
right so that was what the total eight
stands for so these are the four lines
I've got appended to my file - dot txt
okay but however there won't be any
changes to my file one dot txt because I
don't make any changes there so let me
anyway show you that also if you see
here again the contents here are the
same it's only that the file - has got
these four lines extra so that is what
the direction symbol does so these are
the advantages with the cat command
alright so what I'm going to do now is
let me go back to my slides and show you
some more options
okay so we have flags like we have the B
flag the N flag s flag and if I let's
see what each of those stand for okay so
when we use the B flag it's going to add
line numbers to the non blank lines
okay so whichever line there is some X
so those lines are going to be numbered
and when you say minus n then it is used
to add the line numbers to all lines it
doesn't matter with black lines or non
black lines it's just going to add
numbers everywhere line numbers okay and
when you give the s like it is basically
to squeeze all the black lines supposing
you have three blank lines one after the
other then it will squeeze all those
blank lines and it will reduce it okay
so that's what the S does and then the e
flag is going to show you a dollar at
the end of each line so let me go back
to my terminal and show you this option
so first of all let's see the cat file -
dot txt and let me use the flag - n so
this will list the number of lines right
so there are basically four lines from
file 1 and these were the two I had
earlier present so these are the six
lines and total we have in this file -
dot txt okay let me just clear the
screen because it's a little tough to
see everything right so yeah so when I
ran the - n command the file - dot txt
the lines and they're well numbered okay
106 and then we have another black cord
- B flag right - B flag we'll add
numbers to also the non blank lines so
but for that we need to first have
glance lines over here so what we will
do is I'm going to do a chat and do this
and file - dot txt so when I do this I
will be adding lines to this file - dot
txt
okay I'll be appending lines over here
so let me just give one blank line enter
some random text and then under no blank
line and then random text okay so this
is what I am going to just enter or
append to my file - got txt okay you
press ctrl D to exit this and now these
would have been saved to my file - dot
txt so let me just run the same command
again oh sorry I should have ran this
cat file do dot txt okay when I do this
as you can see it starts from here and
these are the other lines that were
appended okay and now if I use the chat
- B flags okay see what happens
only the non blank lines are numbered
right so these lines are not numbered
but if I use the minus end which are
used earlier what it would do is it will
number
in every line so that's the difference
between minus B and the minus n flat
case so n numbers all the lines with
respect to of it being empty or not but
whereas minus B numbers only lines which
are non blank ok so that is this one and
there is another flag which is the - s
flag okay so it's not capital S it is
small s right so when I say minus s then
you get the list of the documents so as
you can see here all the spaces are
squeezed into one seems like there are
no multiple spaces right no multiple
blank lines so what we'll do is let's
edit the file to dot DX C again ok or in
fact let me open it why are the editor
VI editor ok so when I do this these are
the existing ones so when you press
insert or when you press a button or
insert button you can start entering
text details inside this file ok now
right now I'm here let me add multiple
blank lines here ok so as you can see
there are around three blank lines here
one two three four there are four lands
lines and here there are three blank
lines ok now let me press escape ok now
if I go escape ok so now we are an
insert mode so what I do is I'm going to
press escape and then followed by that
if you give : + WQ this would save this
file ok so i have matron is write a
valid line here so it would save that
changes and it would quit the VI editor
mode so if I go vendor so I'm outside
that file so now if you see the cat file
- dot txt then it has additional lines
right so now I'm going to run the
command that I ran earlier cat - a flag
s and then file name so when I do this
all the multiple plans lines are
squeezed into one so as you can see here
there are there have been multiple lines
when I ran the file - dot txt but here
when I ran the cat - not with the S flag
then there are all these multiple
lancing the squeezed into one again so
that is the the
with the cat command okay so I think
with that I think I've covered all the
different options okay there is one left
there is no - the option right so okay
now let me show you what that does so
when you use the capital e flag okay
there's a dollar sign that is appended
after every line so the first line is
total eight or let's say the first line
is this one so there's a dollar sign
here and after this line there's a
dollar sign
after this there's a dollar sign and
still you have land lines you'll only
find the dollar sign here and again
after this one you have a dollar sign
and you know blank lines have dollar
signs and yeah so that's how the 'flag
works okay so every at the end of the
line is appended with the dollar symbol
okay so with this I'm done with all the
chat commands so going back to my slides
now let's go to the next command that is
grip okay so grep command working with
grep command so what does the grep
command do you guys have any idea okay
well I don't expect you people do but
yeah so if people if any of you know if
you have an interruption to Linux then
you can answer it but it's fine if you
don't because I'm going to explain that
it's my duty and the grip command is
basically used to search for a
particular string or a word in a text
file right we have a file document like
the one which we created now like we
have two documents like file 1 dot txt
and fire - row txt and what if you want
to search for a particular string right
or a particular board so in this case
it's pretty simple because you can
easily find them but what if you want to
do it to you know a very big file
documents curve which has like millions
of lines right so supposing you have any
document then you will have multiple
lines right and if you want to find one
particular word or if you want to go to
one particular string then how will it
do it so in Windows you have the control
left option right but via a CLI if you
can't use it writes over a CLI you use
the grep command ok and the format for
executing the command is this so you
specify grep and then you specify the
string that you want to search for so
option is the string that I have surged
in this command and then the file name
ok and this is written the result of the
matching string options so similarly if
you use the I flag then it will return
the results for even case instead
strings so basically if you do not use
the I flag then it is it's case
sensitive right so it will only search
for options with these letters but if
there is a word called options with a
capital o where the first letter is
capitalized then in that case only when
you use ie will even that particular
result be shown okay so that is the
advantage with the I flag and then you
have the N flag which is the grep - n
which will again return the matching
strings along with that line number in
which line was that praying or that word
found so that's what end us and when you
give - V flag then what happens is you
will not be shown the list of lines
where the results were present but
instead you will be shown the list of
four lines where the results were not
found where there was no matching string
right so those lines will be printed
with the help of V flag and then with
the C flag it returns the number of
lines in which the results match the
search ring so supposing you have like
four words okay you have a big document
and your reward your string mult four
times then if you use a minus C flag
then it will display the number four
instead of four displaying the search
string okay so let me go to the VM let
me go to my centers and show you how to
execute these commands okay so right now
we are in the Documents folder if I want
to execute that then we need to edit
this in a different way okay we need to
have a different text and this directory
has these documents right so let me just
quickly go to the Documents folder and
here are if I do an LS we have the two
files which we created we have file dot
txt and file one dot txt so what I'm
going to do is I'm gonna see what's
there in file one dot txt
okay so let me edit this file okay or
let's say let us create a new file what
you say we can create a new file by
doing this right by giving the direction
symbol followed by the name of the file
let's say automobiles Auto Mobile's this
is the name of my file automobile dot
txt and I can start listing down the
automobiles that I want so let's say
car or let's say motorbikes okay we can
say trained well trained staff in order
automobiles but still or let's go into
details of the companies okay let's say
multi let's say Ferrari Lamborghini
these are some of the most famous
companies right so when it comes to by
triopia maja then you have Honda right
you have Sasaki you have
the Korea and name a few more we can add
some older companies like BMW you can
add already we can add Fox Rogen to this
list okay now if I do ctrl D then this
will be the list of content in my
automobile dot txt okay I'll let me a
more clear the screen now and if I do
cat command here then it displays the
list of contents here right
okay now let's use the grep command to
search the content that is present in
this text so i'm going to do a grep and
the string that i want to search for is
let's say 'i am because in lamborghini
we have the search ring GN and even in
yamaha we have the e/m right we are
supposed to get two results for this so
in this case so if I just say grep JM
and if I specify the file name
automobiles or DXE and if I go enter
then I get the two different words right
the two names where this was parent
where am was present okay now if I use
the same thing with the I flag then it
will display the list of files in a case
insensitive fashion but in my file there
is no upper case file I'm going to say
so your thumb will rot dot exe I'm going
to append I'm going to append this word
called amber okay
so amber is another automobile company
and when I do this and if I run the chat
command now okay you will see that along
with these names were there initially
there is Amber has been appended okay
and this time when I search for JM right
so it should not show me this because
even though there is am here
the a is capital here but I am searching
for small it so it's not show me this
result okay I should get the same result
that I got previously so if I do a grip
in like earlier I got the Lamborghini
and Yamaha theory options okay but now
if I
upend this with - I or the I flag so
what happens is I'll get the option of
even amber along with this because it
would search for the string in a case
insensitive fashion okay so this time as
you can see amber is added to this list
because you did not consider case
insensitive words letters okay so that
is about the I fly and there is another
N flag right so let's see what the N
flag does so every time you use the - n
flag then it will list down the line in
which the word was the present so that's
what I mentioned earlier so over here in
line number 6 and 9 number 7 we have
Lamborghini and Yamaha right so the line
number is measured okay now so that's
what the N flag does ok so we have the V
flag and the C flag left so let's
execute them and see what happens so
when I remove N and when I execute V as
you can see all the results except for
Yamaha and for Lamborghini would be
present here ok but if I give - I be ok
which indicates IV flag then even amber
would not be present in the output I
will get now ok when I go to enter as
you can see amber is not present because
amber is part of the case-insensitive
option right Wendy included right this
would be chosen either the source result
and since it's conjured as a search
result we will display only the result
the set of results which were not found
so the other lines which Tex was not
found where these and that's why we got
these options ok now we have one more
flag between you to see and that is the
C flag
and when you enter the sea flag then it
displays the list of the number of times
that string was found so a.m. was found
two times in one sandal a bogey in one
cinema so that's why we got the answer
as to now if I use C with the
combination of I all right I'm going to
get three that's because even Amber will
be considered in this case okay guys so
this is what is there with respect to
the grep command okay so guys do you all
have any doubts okay and if you do have
any doubts please put them in the chat
box because I'll be going to the next
slide then alright and I don't think you
should be having any because of explain
each and every outcome each and every
flag that can be used with grip okay so
if you do have any any other confusion
please put them in the chat box in the
meanwhile let me get back to my
presentation and continue with my next
slide okay so I spoke about the grep
command okay
and now in the next slide let me talk
about the sort command okay so we use
the sort command to sort the results of
a search either alphabetically or
numerically all right and we can sort
either files or file contents or
directories so what this means is
whatever results you get right or I mean
not just results or even if it's the
list of items that is present in
particular electrum when you run an LS
command right you will have a list of
files and the list of folders are there
in that particular directory so we can
sort even those things okay now that
result can be sorted and also we can
sort anything else we can sort the
contents of a file right we can sort the
contents of the file or you know all
these things so that's what this means
so without wasting much time let me just
show you how that is done so you can
just sort and the file that you want to
search alternatively you can also search
two files at the same time by doing 500
txc and Phi 2 dot txt okay so under
under syntax for that is the sort and
the file name okay when you say sort on
the file name then the contents of this
file will be returned in the
alphabetical order okay if you want to
sort two files at the same time then you
can in argument you can just give both
the file names and
we'll sort the contents for both file
one tour txt and 500 th see okay and
again if you want to display them in the
reverse order then you can specify the
our flag and for case-insensitive
sorting you can do the - f flag and then
if you want to sort the results based on
the number in a numerical order then you
can now use the n flag
okay guys so let me first for go to my
terminal and start executing them okay
so what I'm going to do is I'm gonna
clear my screen and currently let me
just return the contents of this
directory so we have automobiles file we
have file 1 and we have file - when I
just give the sword and press ENTER then
I enter the interactive mode ok so here
I can type all the second type random
words ok I can say JB CD or I can say BC
da or I can say e f e d FG all these
things ok and then when I press control
D it gets me out of the interactive mode
I'm going to exit the interactive mode
the texture I tagged and write the input
that has been sorted so this up till
this line was what I entered as input if
you remember and up till EDF G right so
basically this text has been ordered as
per Raj medical order and since a comes
first natural particular ecology this is
first the BCD a is second and then you
have the other lines ok
this happens all in alphabetical order
now if I give salt with the file name ok
that is a automobiles not exe and if I
go enter then this particular file will
be ordered in the alphabetical order ok
the contents will be listed down in an
alphabetical order let me clear the
screen and show that again so let me
first just do a chat and show you how
the order is ok now let me run the sort
with the filename okay so now if you see
it was in this order initially right so
car was the first option motorbike was
the second train was the next marthy and
then came Ferrari and Lamborghini but if
you look at the sorted result then it's
in the sorted manner right so first con
number then comes April yeah then comes
Rory and then the others so that's what
sorting does okay and the same thing can
be done for two different files at the
same time so this was the automobiles or
txt pulling I want to list down even my
files to contents then I can just type
file to dot txt here and the results of
both the files will be in my terminal
okay but before that let me just clear
the screen so that could be easier for
you to view the results okay so now
clear the screen let me sort these two
files okay so let's the commander sort
and this is what I add previously and
let me add file two to it okay fire two
dot txt now what this would do is the
results of both these files right
automobiles and the file to the results
of those would be sorted in the a
spectacle Nano okay now if I give an
enter as you can see here first
initially you have blank space okay now
what that is because blanks are a head
of sea capital a right this is the as
medical order correct so first comes
blank space then comes a white space and
then come to the characters so once we
are done with those things then we have
amber April yeah already this is the
order in which the files were listed in
the automobiles and right after C D
comes okay now this line is part of the
file one well these are part of
automobiles this was part of file two
dot txt so yeah these results were a
part of the automobiles or txt file the
blank lines here these are part of the
file dot txt and again these two lines
right these are part of file two dot txt
okay so this is what happens when you
give two files as arguments now there
are other options that I want to show
you though so I they were flag like our
flag right so our flag lifts the results
in the reverse order okay
and we want to clear the screen and yeah
for clearly the screen the shortcut is
ctrl L alright guys so let's say sort
automobiles dot txt okay it's cat right
I don't want to do cat I want to do sort
automobile dot txt and I want to use the
flag minus R so when you use my nail art
it will display the result in the
reverse order so we have the reverse
order in which Emma comes first and the
amber comes last
so that is the year reverse order and we
have another flag here the other flag is
the F flag which will return the results
in the case insensitive fashion okay so
that is the minors s and then if you go
back to the slides there is a n option
right so n will return the results in
the numerical order now let me go to my
terminal and let me use the N flag now
but of course I don't think it will sort
anything because there are no numerical
jur so what I'm going to do is I'm going
to use the file to dot txt here okay
file to dot txt okay so there are no
numerical here either what I can do is I
can edit these details so let me go VI
and save file
- dot exe and I'm going to enter the
insert mode I'm going to remove all
these unwanted lines okay so I promote
all the black lines now I'm going to put
one here and I'm going to put two here
I'm going to add three to this line I'm
going to add four to this line okay
all right guys or let's say let's give
the order seven here okay you have two
here okay so there are some kind of
numericals ahead of you know it before
every line starts right so when we run
the - n command now the sort command
with the N flag now then it would sort
these lines with respect to the lines
with the numerical order okay so first
this line would be shown the black line
okay then you would be shown the you
know the total line then you would be
shown the third line and like that so
let me just escape : and save and quit
okay now let me run that same sort
command sort - and five - dot txt so as
you can see the alphabets are first
sorted okay so the lines where there are
text characters or alphabetical letters
so those are displayed and after that
the lines that are formatted after that
are in numerological fashion okay so if
I don't give the N it would be a
different fashion altogether so earlier
the file was just displayed in the
regular numerical order okay so where
one two three four five the numbers came
first and then came the text but since
we ran the - and the vertical letters or
the characters came first okay after
that it was sorted by or numerical
letters so that's what the ends lock
does and that brings us to the end of
the short commands okay so after the
sort command
the next one that we have in line is
that of pipe command okay
so this is referred to as the pipe so
you will find this in your rock in your
keyboards right above the enter button
okay where you have the backward slash
so in that button if you press shift and
if you press a button you will get this
pipe command and what the pipe command
helps you does is it lets you perform
two operations in the same command like
it'll let me search let's take the
example that's specified you're okay we
are using the grip to search for a
particular string from a file and we are
using that and then we are sorting that
result okay so since there are two
operations involved okay one is the sort
and one is the ER search since there are
two operators involved in the same
command we separate the two operations
with the help of the pipe command so
that's what Todd is and as the
definition says the pipe command is used
to output the result of one command as
input to another command okay
the same thing can be said over here
also so we'll first search the file for
a particular string and whatever result
you get that would be given as input to
the sort command over here right so this
saves us time in are not having to
mention the file name after sort again
so we will just be performing one grep
search and then we just whatever result
comes that result will go to the
operation that's performed over here
right so let me just go to the terminal
and show you an example of this I am
going to clear the screen and let's run
the grep command to search for JM from
the automobiles dot txt okay I'm going
to use the pipe command and sort this so
these were the two results right so when
you do a cat command or when you do when
you just run the grep command with a.m.
right so what would happen as we get
these two results because these two
lines or these two words have the a.m.
characters inside right now when you
give the sort it would sort it
alphabetically right and if I if I want
to sort on the other way then I can just
run the same command with the ArcLight
so when I do R then this result will be
sorted in the reverse fashion so iam how
comes first and Lamborghini comes first
so that's how the five command can be
used to get the output from one
operation and read that output as the
input to the next operation
so this is relatively smaller topic okay
and we quite often we be using the pipe
command when you want to use multiple
operations in the same command so that's
about the pipe command okay so let me
just clear the screen and get back to my
presentation and see what's my next
layer all about okay so now that I've
shown you how to sort the content of the
file let's go to the next slide right so
the next section of this tutorial is
going to be about the copy move make
directory remove remove directory and
the user permissions alright so let's
get started with this section okay CP
stands for copy that will be the first
slide that we're gonna talk a lot okay
so as you know copy is basically used to
copy files or directories okay the point
notice files and directories so in
Windows you have the option of
right-clicking on any file or any folder
and you know saying copy or copy paste
or cut paste right that's in Windows and
you can do that even for the GUI in
Linux but how will you do it through the
CLI right to the terminal you specify
this command you specify CP and if you
have any flag you enter the flag and
then you specify the source and the
destination okay so the source is
basically this will be the path of the
folder that you want to copy and this is
the place where you want to copy it to
all right so let's get back to executing
and ensuring your demonstration of this
so I'm going to go back to my terminal
so first of all we're in the documents
directory and let's see what is there in
this directory
okay there are the three files that we
created right there is automobiles or
txt there is a file 1 dot txt and file
who got txt now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to copy the automobile dot txt
and paste it in my desktop ok so let me
just minimize this so this is my desktop
right so right now I don't have the
automobiles or txt but to the terminal
I'm going to run a command which will
copy the automobiles or txt to this
folder ok so I'm just going to minimize
the terminal now or to show you that it
happens ok real time so what I'm going
to do is LS I'm gonna say copy
automobiles what txt this is the source
and the
nationís route home ed Rekha and Enid
Rekha
it's the desk of folder right when I hit
the enter there will be a new
automobiles dot txt file that we traded
over here so as you can see the new file
got created over here and yeah so it's a
very simple command that you can now
execute so you can do the same thing to
even directories and files alright so
what I'm going to do is I'll go to the
home directory and from the home
directory I'm going to go to the desktop
directory and copy the LNS folder right
so the LMS folder is again you know it's
it's a folder this time it's not a file
so last time we copy a file this time I
want to show you how to copy the folder
itself ok I'm going to copy this folder
and paste it somewhere else so let me go
to the terminal CD and I'm going to go
to the desktop here alright so we have
for LMS here so I'm going to say copy
LMS alright so I'm going to remove the
slash from here because I'm going to
copy this folder now and this would make
it the source that would make element
the source and the destination is we
have to put the absolute path you're
right so we got to start from the root
directory and go to Home ed Rekha and
let's say I want to put it in the
documents directory okay so something
that is present in the desktop directory
that is being copied and pasted inside
the documents directory ok so when we go
enter so guys are we are getting an
error here right so it says copy CP
omitting directory LMS can you only
guess why that is the case can all like
understand the meaning of this error
omitting directory don't break a sweat
too much because the meaning is simple
your exists it has is omitted the
directory ok not the reason is so that
is because the CP command
it by default it copies only files ok if
you want to copy directories also then
you go to add another flag called our
flag so let me just quickly go to the
slides and show you the functionality
there ok as you can see here we have the
our flag right so CP minus R it is for
recursive copy and that's for copying
directories also okay and it copies also
hidden files if there are any hidden
files or if you have directories which
you want to copy inside that directory
then it'll it will copy that data itself
so that is the thing because you cannot
copy your directories without the are
flag you can only copy files so that is
the meaning here and we have another
flag called the V flag and that is
verbose well what verbose means is it
print informaiton messages supposing
you're executing a command ok and
supposing the command is going to take
times like it's going to take a good 5
10 seconds then during that time it
would print the status of the system
like supposing it has completed like
step one to step three ok and it's stuck
except for then it would print that
message and as in when staffers
completed you will get a message saying
that's completed and yeah similarly it's
like progress wise it tells you what is
the progress and what are the action
that some is taking and what step is
performing so it just prints such
information messages - we ok ok let's
first start off with the I flag
ok so we have something called as a CP
flag I okay so when you give the I slag
it enters the interactive mode so when
you say interactive mode it is because
at times you might have the files which
will all be already be present in a
particular directory ok
you saw me copy automobiles dot txt once
from documents to desktop ok now if I do
the same operation again if I run the
same command again at that time it will
automatically overwrite the file right
because the file name is the same the
automobiles or TX C's was the one that
is there in My Documents folder and
again even over here on my desktop it is
documents sorry it's automobiles when I
copy then what would happen is that file
would be replaced
ok now in that kind of situation when
you're copying multiple files you might
want to be notified before something
happens right so if you specify
something like the I flag then you will
get an interactive mode so the system
will not take the decision on its own
but instead it will not use any defaults
ok that's what we mean by your on its
own ok so it would you know ask you it
would prompt you for an answer it will
tell you that ok this file already
exists in this directory and do you want
to replace it and then it will give you
an option Y or n Y stands for s en
stands for No
so that's what the CPF and I flagged us
and when you give the N flag it will not
overwrite the file okay because by
default it overrides the file and if you
specify the N flag it will not overwrite
the file but the whole concept here is
it is based on the file name what do the
file name is the same and the file
contents are different okay at that
situation you might want something like
the flag you okay now what the flag do
does is it will update the destination
file only when the source file is
different from the destination file so
by using the n flag you will make sure
that the file is not overwritten okay
but then if you use the u flag you will
have another benefit okay what will
happen when you use the u flag is so
first it would check the file name if
the file names are different then it
would create a new file if in case there
is another file by the same name then it
will check the contents of that file if
the contents of that file and the files
are being copied if they are the same
then it would not get copied and it
would only get copied when the content
is different so at that time we'll have
got two different files with the same
name so that we advantage with the CP
and u flag okay so let's try executing
these options all right so I'm just
going to go back to my terminal here so
first and foremost let's execute the our
flag its capital R so do note that and
then you say enter so the item is copied
so if you go back to your Documents
folder you can see that as a new folder
called elements has been created so this
was initially not present and it's
present now okay now what we'll do is I
will delete this okay I'm going to
minimize this execute the same command
along with the virgo is slide alright so
as you can see the status of the system
was also displayed in the meanwhile even
though I entered my your text somewhere
here
yup it's right here correct so this was
the earlier command that I executed
without the verbose okay here at this
traitor it copied the file ok the LMS
sorry the LMS folder to My Documents
folder modern angles be the information
message also came right so it the
step-by-step process of what all is
being copied can so first this was the
first photo
this was the first subfolder being
copied and after that all the other
files that are being copied each and
every document step by step it is all
let's sit down and we get all those
details here if you give a minus V in
your command so that's what the minus V
does okay so I'm left to show you the I
and ru flags right so what I'm going to
do is let's say I didn't want to clear
the screen now okay I'm gonna remove
this command here and go back to the
Documents folder and show you that the
LMS has been copied okay with the
verbose when I created this folder okay
now what I want to show you is I'm going
to show you copy with the interactive
mode so earlier if you see the desktop
there's already an automobile dot txt
right so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to copy automobiles or txt I'm
going to copy this one again to the
desktop at this time it would you know
I'm going to use an AI flag and it will
not overwrite the existing flag so now
I'm going to say CP automobiles dot txt
to destination is home slash ed rekha
slash all right now I think I'm in the
wrong directories right now okay so I
need to go one path back switch to
documents all right now here I need to
copy the automobiles from here right and
put it in the desktop so
home slash a breakup slash
Desktop okay so I'm going to copy the
automobiles or TXE over here so when I
go enter the automobiles or taxi has
been copied your again so let me just go
back to my desktop and see that even
though I've run the round this comment
two times one now one one earlier and
one now just a couple of seconds back
there has been no duplicate has been
created that's because this file has
been overwritten okay but the one with
the name automobiles has been
overwritten with the latest command so
what I'm going to show you now is I'm
gonna use a nice flag here like I told
you I flag is what gets you into
interactive mode so you will start
interacting with the Linux kernel or the
UNIX shell over here so as it says the
home a Drake our desktop automobile dot
txt it says overwrite do you want to
overwrite this particular file this is
already present if you want to overwrite
if you say why and if you enter then the
file would be overwritten okay but if
you give N and enter then that file
would not be overwritten so if I say and
no and if I enter then that copy would
have failed okay but if I do the same
thing again and if I press Y it would
have over it and the file robin
overwritten so that is what the I flag
is and then you have another option okay
off the ends lag so the N flag what it
does is it does not overwrite the file
by default so for that option I told you
that by default it overrides right so I
also showed you earlier that no
duplicate was created and the existing
file is overwritten supposing you don't
want to do that then you can just use
the N flag which would automatically
indicate and tell the deluxe runtime
engine that not to overwrite this
particular file ok
so you can have any number of files
there so even if the contents are
different here ok so even in case the
new file that's being copied has a
different content ok but it has the same
name then even in that case by
specifying the N file it will not be
overwritten because there is a good
chance that you might have made changes
to the latest file and by copying
another file with the same name to that
same directory then there's a good
chance that you'll be losing out on the
changes that you made right so at that
time you can use the N flag so in fact
let me show you that with an example
what I'm going to do is
right now we are in the documents
directory so I'm going to do a chat and
automobiles ok so these are the contents
here and let me update this ok what I'm
going to add is I'm going to add another
company of another Rob Pike ok let's say
we are adding KTM to that list ok so
when I do ctrl D and exit the
interactive mode and if I do chat
automobiles txt then KTM would be added
over here
okay now this automobiles files in the
documents right now this is the updated
one ok but in the desktop the updated
file is not present ok in the desktop
the file with only this much of content
is there now I'm going to execute the
command with the N flag ok so with the N
flag it's basically indicating that
you're not supposed to overwrite the
file ok so when it says that when it
finds out that automobiles dot txt is a
present over there also in the desktop
also it would turn not copy the file at
all ok so when I go enter and of course
so there is nothing here now if I go to
the desktop ok if I click on automobiles
or txt or you can see that I am KDM is
not present all right but however when I
close it and if I er remove the N flag
right so I remove the slag and execute
it and if I go back to the automobiles
or TX you will find that km is updated
awesome right so that's the power of
this n slide ok so that is the end of
for all the different flags that I was
about to show you from my DVD ok so
additionally there is one other thing
that I want to show you ok now I show
you how to copy from source to
destination okay now you know whatever
you know the path or something and you
want to copy it to your present
directory to where you are currently so
this is basically I'm just teaching you
this option to you know say sometime you
know at times you might want some
shortcuts or some hacks I do not want to
provide the complete path everywhere so
at that situations at that scenarios you
can use this hack and let me explain
that
before I ER execute it in my ear
terminal so what I'm saying is right now
I'm in my desktop and I have only my
automobiles and my readme text files ok
now but in My Documents folder I have
got three other Tech's a 500 X C and Phi
- dot txt okay let's say I just want to
copy the file to a txt what will I do if
I want to copy my file dot txt into my
desktop I'll have to go through my
documents folder then put the CP command
and then enter the file name and then
copy it to this folder right I have to
specify the path of this desktop so
instead of that there is under hike over
there
okay now instead of doing that what I
can do is I can just go to my terminal I
need a first go to the desktop folder
but okay so I'm going to go and step
back I'm going to say it change to
desktop and here yes there is only
automobiles or TXE and there is readme
dot txt now what I'm going to do is I'm
going to run the CP command such that I
copy file from this particular directory
to the current directory okay so the
file - tor txt if you remember that is
present in my document directory right
so I'm going to specify the path to the
document directory and the path to
documents a curious / boom Arica and
documents okay and the file name is r5 -
dot txt okay I want to copy this file
which is under this path to my current
directory
okay in Java having to specify my
complete current directory I can just
give one dot so this one dot represents
the current working directory
okay I'm currently in my desktop and
what this command would do is it would
copy this file into this current
directory okay now when I give enter and
if I go back to my desktop you'll see
that the file - dot txt has been created
okay that's what is it it went to this
path picked up this file and pasted it
in my current director so that's what
this is about
alright so this is what I want to show
you guys this was something additional
which was not there on the slides so I'm
done with that so moving on to the next
slide okay
so next up we have is the move command
okay so the MV like CP stands for copy
the MDEs and so moved
okay and this is the user times when you
want to cut paste something okay this
would when we use copy then the original
copy of that file was also present in
the existing directory and it was
created in another directory right but
if you use the MV command then
so I'm going to basically work like cut
phase where it will remove the content
from the so directory and the only copy
would be present in that destination
directory alright so that means straight
away get started it's not too much of an
explanation needed over here because
it's self-explanatory if you use the I
flag it basically enters into
interactive mode again like before so
the u flag is again the same as what it
was in the copy command it updates the
destination file only when the source
file is different from the destination
file and the mb- V again it would you
know move it would print the system
state ok print the source and the
destination files gets into the
interactive mode where the ok not in
track remote it basically means the
system status will be displayed over
here ok that's what the verbose is all
about so let me go back to my terminal
and show you how this copy is done
alright so let me clear the screen and
currently I'm in my your desktop folder
ok and here I have these files I have
automobiles or txt and read me and file2
ok now what I'm going to do is I'm gonna
use the Move command to move file to dot
txt to another destination I'm going to
move it to the LMS right so when I give
the LMS ok this means that this move
command will work such that this file
will be moved to LMS folder ok let me go
enter and go back to my desktop and find
that it's not missing that's because I
run a command over there if I go to LMS
however I will find the file to dot txt
over here all right awesome right so
that's what the MV file does and
supposing I want to you know similar to
copy yeah you can move multiple files at
the same time alright so I can move you
know supposing I go back to my desktop
ok and I will find that there is
automobiles and really suppose I want to
move both of these to the LMS directory
then I can do that also I can just
simply go move I can give automobiles or
TFC and read me dot txt and specify the
destination I can move any other folder
or I can move to any folder is are
moving into LMS folder then I just need
to give
okay but however if I am moving to
another folder then I got to start from
the root say home a Drakkar and from
your let's see I want to go to downloads
okay so downloads if I want to go I'll
give this path algorithm enter and if
you notice both are missing from my
desktop and if I go to my a trake and if
I go to downloads I can find the two
files over here so that's how Simulator
guys so that's the move command and if
you want to see the system status then
you can use the V flag like we use for
CP so a similar log will be generated
and shown if you want to enter
interactive mode then you can use the I
flag alright if you're moving like two
files right at that time you might need
the interactive interactive fight so
similar to copy where if we are moving
to the destinations folder where there's
an already another file with the same
name then at that time you might want to
use the I flag it would ask you whether
you want to override it or not if you
don't want to override it at all then
you can just give the N slack but there
again if you don't want to use the N
flag either then you can use the minus u
flag which would update the destination
file only when the source and the
destination files are different okay so
these are the different flags that can
be used with mV so the basically the
flags that can we use your are the same
as the flag that can be used with the
copy command so guys that's it with the
move command and we can go to the next
slide ok we can go to the next topic but
before that there is one more
functionality that I want to show you
with respect to both copy and move I
actually forgot to show you this aspect
okay now for this let me first show you
the GUI aspect okay all right
I go to my edge Rekha and if you were by
documents you'll find all these three
text files and also my LMS folder right
now whether beat copy or whether beat
move commands I'll show you how to copy
like one file or two files or three
files okay but what do we have like 25
files right so what we have like I mean
just think about this what if you're a
proper Linux user and you and you want
to just transfer all your files of some
particular format right you want to just
transfer it to another folder you want
to take a backup or something of that
what would you do in so if you know you
can do a ctrl K over here and - is all
the files okay or you can choose one off
the other like this but to the CLI how
we do it correct so you have such
problems right so for that you know we
have options also for CLI and those
booked with both CP and move commands so
what I'm going to do is I'm going to
show you how that is done so for that
purpose I'm going to first go to my
documents directory I want to make that
my PWD so I just go one back and Here I
am
good documents okay now I'm here so what
I'm going to do is I'm going to clear
the screen so of course for clearing the
screen the shortcut is ctrl L okay if
you guys are forgotten that and I also
mentioned that earlier so ctrl L is the
shortcut for that so yeah we have
automobiles or TX say file1 and file2
and LMS so we have these four files and
one folder there okay now if I want to
move this one of the directory then
there is another option so what I can do
is I can use something for as regular
expressions okay regular expressions is
one topic which I'm going to cover in
detail later during the session but just
because we're in the CP or in the Move
command stage of this demonstration I
wanna continue now I want to show you
this also okay I want to just get
finished with this part so you will get
an idea of what I'm saying when you see
me do this so here we have these four
files so first let's use the copy
command so if I want to copy all the
files you extend the form of a file okay
so they are all in the dot txt format
right so what I can do is I can just do
a CP I can click on dot or rather
astrick dot txt
now what this essentially does is
instead of searching for the txt file by
its name this is fantastic it searches
for all the files with the dot txt okay
which is ending with a dot txt so that's
what this would do and when we say CP
followed by asterisk dot txt it means
copy all the files that are ending with
dot txt so in our case we have
automobiles or txt file 1 dot txt and
file 2 dot txt right so what this
command would do is it would copy these
things and put it in the path where I
suggest you so let's say I want to put
it in another folder ok let me start up
from the root home Arica then here i
think we have you know we have these
options right ok this is the documents
so in the ED rekha we have ok we have
the music folder we have downloads
pictures ok downloads of course I've
already copied something in there so
what I'll do is I'll move that to the
music folder ok so the music directory
so I'm going to say this and give enter
so you're copying has been successful so
if you go back to the music directory
you see that there are three new files
- automobiles the other one is file1 and
the other one is five - okay now the
same thing can be done for even move
right the same way we execute a copy we
can also execute the move command move
is going to completely move it it's more
like cut pacing okay similar to how you
remember from Windows let's move it to
pictures
okay so currently in pictures there is
nothing and then music we have these
three so when I execute the move command
this photo should become empty and they
should all go to the pictures folder all
right so move okay but we have a problem
for that what we need to do is we go to
move to our music folder right so it
would this would probably show an error
so I'm going to first go back or rather
go to music folder okay we are in
documents right so what we're going to
do is a CD music alright and I have my
commands here right so here I'll execute
that move command so it was this one I'm
just going to replace CB with mV okay so
from my music directory if you want to
move all the folders or files which will
have the dot txt format okay all the
files not folders it'll move all the
files with the dot txt format and it
will move it to home slash ed rekha
slash let's move it to pictures what do
you say okay so when I give enter that
would have moved so let's go back to our
folders music there's nothing here this
has been cut pasted to the pictures
directory
alright this is what I'm going to show
you okay this is what I missed showing
you earlier while executing the CD
command but yeah here we are
I have done this and similarly if you
want to go also you know if you are from
the music director and if you want to
move something to the current working
directory even that is possible okay so
another possibility which I would like
to show you is that of going back going
to pictures and then we have all this
year and I'm gonna clear the screen LS
again we have automobiles file one dot
txt and file two dot txt right so we can
do a move command and
so right now we are in the so let me
clear the screen again so I'm going to
do a CD I'm going to clear the screen
and currently I'm going to do an LS so
some of our items are present in
pictures so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to move back to music
if I do an LS there's nothing over here
so what I'll do is I say move slash home
slash ed rekha slash pictures dot okay a
strike first dot txt and I want to move
it to the current directory so when I do
this again from the pictures everything
we have moved back to music alright so
that is the other thing that I want to
show you okay so similarly it works for
even the copy command I'm pretty sure
you will understand how it works so I'm
not gonna waste too much time on that
okay I've cured my screen and now let's
start with the next topic okay I'm going
to go back to my slides and yeah the
next topic is make directory commands
okay so the next topic is make directory
okay that's what mkdir stands for make
directory alright
so it's simple again if it's all about
creating a new directory or creating a
new folder okay so to create a new
directory you just specify mkdir and the
path ok the directory path ok that would
create a new subdirectory in that path
ok guys
so currently we are in the documents
right so I'm going to do an LS I have
these many things so I'm going to do a
mkdir and create a new folder over here
so that folder name is going to be lets
say folder 1 ok when I do this on your
folders created so when I do the LS
command again so you can see that the
folder 1 is extra ok it was not there
the previous end that we executed the LS
command ok so that's how you create a
new folder so it's pretty simple now
comes the other question ok I can go
into the folder 1 ok
of course it be nothing inside now what
if I want to create multiple folders ok
and
parent directories let's say something
like I want to create folder one instead
which I want to create a folder to and
Peter for the three is that possible
okay so I'm going to try doing that and
show you if it's possible or not okay so
I'm going to say make directory folder 1
slash folder - ok this would be folder
because I'm already inside folder 1 this
will be 4 2 3 and
4.4 okay so this basically will run the
military command inside folder one and
it will make a retrieve two three and
four now when I give enter these folder
should be created ideally they should be
created okay ideally speaking so let me
just verify everything once and showed
you so it was documents this is a new
folder I created folder one there is
nothing inside okay now from the
terminal if I click enter it says make
directory cannot create dietary folder
two three and four okay because there is
no such file or directory okay do you
all know why that is areas or
specifically can we do it that is
because when we try to enter one
directory it's possible okay then like
in this case we specify just one one
directly right this folder one so it
created the directory once but in this
case there are too many directories that
we need to create okay it's like two
three and four
how can make the rhetoric create so many
folders because this is going to be in
the form of a parent child or a
subdirectory right we are creating 402
inside which there's a folder three
inside which there's a folder for so in
this case mkdir is not enough so this is
when we need to use another flag called
V - V flag that stands for parent okay
let me go to my slides and discover that
aspect once so as you can see here let's
flag called - P ok and what it does is
it creates both a new parent directory
and a subdirectory and it's essentially
used only when you're creating like two
three territories and I mean you're
creating one directory and a couple of
subdirectories under that directory okay
so that's when you use this
alternatively you can also use this - -
patterns all right and if you want to
create one parent directory and multiple
subdirectories inside that directory
then you can use these flower brackets
okay inside the flower brackets you can
have the different folder names okay so
let me just quickly go to the terminal
and show you that aspect so make
directory these were there and now I'm
going to give - P and when I execute
this everything would have been created
so let me do a CD folder - now do an LS
there is a folder three now let me do
this and enter and let me do an LS again
there's a folder for of course here
there would be nothing right so let me
enter this
for the four and here there will be
nothing for the four so that's what I
was talking about okay let me also
verify that once from the download for
the one we created a folder to inside
which is a folder three and there's a
folder for okay guys so this is what we
just created so what I'm going to do is
I'm gonna just go back to my folder one
here okay in fact yeah okay folder one
should be good now I want to show you
executing the same command with the
flower bracket right I told you that
creating a flower bracket will let you
create multiple directories inside that
directory so if I am going to say make
directory folder because it's inside
folder one I can create one here folder
too I can say comma four to three coma
folder for okay and if I close this
flower bracket then these three sub
directories or folders would be created
inside my folder one alright so give an
enter here so I go back to my Gy so I go
inside folder one so initially there was
one folder - okay
that was the photo to which I created
earlier okay now I created photo - all
in small smallest smaller and smaller
here so 4 - 4 - 3 photo was created now
folder this one was created earlier ok
guys so that's how you know you make
directories in fact you can even append
this with a parent say you are supposing
you're now in folder one right you can
say make directory you can say s to put
a slash and then inside this sq folder
these subtitles will be created okay now
if I give enter I know what the problem
here is it is because F 2 is not created
right now correct this is the time when
you go to use the - P command parents
command right so which I showed you
earlier so now that I've used of minus P
so the parent is created and the
children are also created so if I go
back to folder 1 this was F 2 is what I
created recently alright so inside F -
there's be for the twofold threefold for
alright so this is what we can do with
respect to make directory commands
alright so let me close this and go back
to my slides ok and go to the next topic
ok so next up is the rmdir and the RM
commands ok so this is the remove and
this stands for remove directory now
there is a subtle difference between the
two ok now when you say ok the basic
difference between the two is that when
you say remove directory it you only
remove that particular directory but
when you say remove it can also remove
the sub directories or the child
directories inside that one so let me
just go to my terminal and show you how
these are executed
ok
yep I'm on over my terminal so currently
I am in my folder one right so let's go
to folder 2 and then the one LS CD
folder 3 LS CD folder folder for okay of
course is nothing here so what I can do
is come in for the 3 now okay let's
again yes I'm in folder 3 and like if I
want to remove this folder then I can do
a remove directory folder for all right
so when I do this this particular folder
would have been deleted now from folder
to I can again remove photo 3 ok similar
to Hawaii our remote folder for but how
about I go one more path back ok so
right now I'm an LS ok so if I drop PWD
you'll find an amen' folder 1 ok and
when I do an LS I have f2 photo to have
a capital folder - this is where my
photo 3 and folder or 4 is pressed ok so
I have that and then I have 4 - 3 and I
have 4 and 4 now however if I try doing
a remove directory and if I try to
remove folder - right it will not work
it fails because the folder to which
were trying to delete right from inside
folder 1 we are trying to delete the
folder - this is that photo - and inside
this folder - there is another folder
that is folder
3 let me just show it to you once so
that I can remove your confusion so
inside this folder - I have photo 3 ok
and because I am trying to delete this
folder - its own able to delete because
there is already a folder 3 inside this
folder that is the problem with remove
directory so guys I just clear the
screen and now let me just do an LS
again so now I'm going to show you how
to remove these folders I showed you
removing folder for ok so inside this
folder 3 I meant and I removed folder
for ok now I'm going to show you how to
remove multiple folders ok at the same
time now let's say I'm running the same
remove that tree again so I'm going to
say remove folder 2 and when I just
enter it
failed to remove folder 2 because the
directory is not empty
ok do you know what the problem is it's
telling right because the data tree is
not empty not able to delete so because
folder 3 is contained inside folder -
it's not able to delete this folder so
if I want to delete a folder to also
then what I gotta do is you know I got
to first delete the folder 3 and then
delete the folder for so I have to
provide the absolute path of the child
directory ok so I'm going to say remove
directory ok
same like before I'm going to say it
folder 2 / 4 - 3 when I run this command
then my folder 3 will get deleted okay
the child will get deleted but the
parent will still be active folder 2
will be active ok because when I use the
rmdir with folder 2 and photo 3 only for
the 3 will get deleted let me show you
why that's the case now you have enter
when I do an LS for the 2 should be
available see it's photo tool available
but when I do a folder - there is
nothing in here
ok there's nothing in here so if you
want to do that if you want to delete
both the parent and the tiles at the
same time you got to use a - P flag so
let me show you to use a - free PFLAG ok
so I'm just going to make the photo 3
now and I'm going to show you how to use
a P flag so similar to how we use while
creating a folder we got to use the same
remove directory ok rmdir with the - P
and photo - and folder 3 folder 2/3 so
in this case both the folder 2 and the
parent and the child will get deleted
ok enter when I do an LS I don't have a
folder - here ok this one is also
deleted so that's what a - P flag does
now let me just create make a new
directory and what I want to show you is
the verbose okay so I'm going to make
directory so again the the ones which I
deleted to have come up again would have
been created again so I want to show you
the usage of the verbose directory when
I had of be here as for the slides it
said write the verbose so when I add a
we here and when I hit enter okay
awkward and immediately again so as to
actually remove the directory now ok now
when I say removed
Factory and when I try to print the
verbose - PD so it says first it's
deleted the folder 3 okay which is
answer and inside folder - after
deleting that it has come and deleted
folder - ok so that's what this is all
about this is what you know you need to
know about the remove directory commands
now let me just clear the screen so guys
are now let's see how the RM command
works ok now your arm command here and
it says from the slides it can be used
to remove even non empty directories ok
if you use the RM with dr slack and if
we use the R and P flags together then
it removes the non empty you're
decreased including the parent and the
sub directories okay so the one
limitation that we had with the rmdir
command was that we could not remove non
HEPA directories we at first empty them
and then only delete them
ok otherwise we had to specify the
entire path and then you know use the
b-flat to remove all the parents and all
the child subdirectories in that path
right that was the limitation that we
had with remove directory button RM we
don't have a problem because uh let's
see ok in LS we have so many folders ok
so if I try going to f2 ok and I do an
LS your than app three different photos
photo 2 4 3 4 4
ok now if it's an rmdir command it
cannot technically delete this folder
called f2 f2 is basically a non empty
directory inside f2 there are other
directories like folder 2 3 and 4 so let
me just show to you once
so inside f2 we have 3 folders folder 2
4 2 3 &amp; 4 4 so with the are dir command
we cannot definitely remove but with f2
we have a chance removing it ok
that's because we can make use of the
our flag here okay
but however this will also it would read
f2 and its subfolders ok so let me do an
LS and if you can see your initially
under photo 1 we had F 2 and these 3
okay but now we don't have that under F
2 because that will F 2 photo is missing
if I go back to my folder 1 here you
will see that the F 2 is missing over
here - that's because in the remove
right it removed the whole F 2 folder in
spite of
it containing some folders okay and
that's what the our flag does that's the
advantage of using the our flag okay so
if the same thing is we use the art
slack with the V flag then it will print
the status also it's like the verb was
ready to print it will tell you what all
as will delete it and how it has been
deleted so that's the advantage with
using RM / rmdir okay at times this is
more beneficial so I'm going to clear
the screen and getting back to my
presentation I'm done with all the
concepts in this light so let me go on
to the next topic okay so the next topic
is going to be that of working with user
permissions okay it's very important for
a Linux administrator to know what these
user permissions are okay because the
different files will be their different
directories will be there and he has to
determine what kind of access will be
available for which user right so that's
what is the control here so the
different permissions are basically read
write and execute okay R stands for read
W stands for write and execute is X okay
so initially you get this kind of an
output okay you know what
let me go to my terminal and show you
what happens when you run an LS LS LS
minus L command because user permissions
is something which will appear in which
you can control via the LS - L command
right because when you do that all the
different file contents whether it's a
directory or whether it's another file
all those things along with their
permissions will be visible and long
format right so let me go to my terminal
first and go to CD alright now when I do
an LS I have a list of all these
documents okay but however when I do an
LS - L I get it in long format okay so I
get it something like this
so for each folder I have the permission
set so for desktop I have the permission
sets and then I have the other
components okay I'm going to explain
what this entire component what the
entire row means so do not let you get
too complicated first I'm going to
explain only this part okay the first 10
characters if you see here the first 10
chapters of these and I will explain
this part first and then I will explain
this set these three blocks and then
Alex
the remaining blocks okay so getting
back to this first block in my slides
you can see that the first block it
determines what is the file type okay it
is a file or directory type in fact if
that is a directory then it would be
represented by the okay if you have a D
as the first character over here then
that's a directory okay as it says but
it can also be any other thing such a -
like this then it means that it's a
normal file okay but in the first letter
if it's a C then it means that's the
character special file and if there is B
over here in this part of the first
letter and then it's a binary special
file so basically there can be four
different letters over here it can be
either a - or D B or C representing four
different aspects okay
so that is the first information that
you have about that particular file and
then you have three different blocks
okay so the next nine letters I want to
determine the user permissions okay and
those nine are divided into three three
three okay so the first three represent
the user permissions okay the second
block having three rwx
representatives are those of group
permissions and the final block
represents other permissions okay this
means other users now this user is the
actual user who is logged into the
system okay that particular user so this
is the user permissions this is the
group permissions which the user belong
to and what the other group can view and
this is with respect to the other users
okay that's what is meant by this others
so if we have the and the order always
goes by RW x + RW X and here also it BR
W and X okay
so that is the order read write and
execute so if the first three blocks are
all our W and X then it means that the
user has all the three permissions or
the owner of the file or the user as the
read/write and the execute permissions
okay and in this place if there are
three characters right RW and X in this
order it means that the owner or the
user has the permissions to read write
and execute that particular file okay
and if there is RW and X in the next
block then it means that the group has
the read write and execute permissions
on that particular raw file so every
file that's created write it will have a
and it will also have a default group
that it will be assigned to so all the
users a part of that group will have
that read write and execute functions
okay but whereas the last three here it
stands for other user sumption so they
can be multiple users right the same
system can have multiple users one of
course will be the root user the other
will be the owner or you and besides you
there can be any number of future it can
be your friends your colleagues or you
know other people so this others
represents that and if you have a blank
in any place okay so in this case there
is a blank over here in state of W
there's a blank it means that this
others they don't have the right access
they only add the read access and the
execute access all right and similarly
if you go back to the terminal
okay and if you see your take the
example of this particular file desktop
okay Desktop folder is where we were
executing a lot of commands right it is
under the editorial folder so yeah this
was the folder that we are talking about
the desktop right now it's our directory
basically okay that you all agree with
then these three characters represent
that the person who's using it okay
right now the person who is using it
because I am logged in right now and
I've logged in with this username right
sorry for that guys yeah and have logged
in with this username right at raiga
so me being the owner and me being the
user I have the read write and execute
permissions okay but the group that I
belong to okay that group does not have
the read write and execute functions and
the group that this file belongs to now
because this file is either owned or
used by me okay now because I am the
user I have this access and then this
file will also belong to a group right
so whenever you create this file it will
be assigned to that particular user
creating it and it will be assigned to a
default group so we are talking about
that group here okay and that particular
group does not have all three right it
has only the read function and the
execute function it doesn't have the
write permission okay and the same thing
can be said for even the other users so
the other users in that system will be
using that system they will only have
the read and execute access on the
desktop okay but whereas if you take the
example of this file one dot txt
right which I created sometime back
during this session this one if you see
the functions are such that the first
one is a - okay what - technically means
is it's a normal file okay I explained
that - is normal B stands for binary
special file and T stands for character
special file so of course we don't have
those options here we don't have the BNC
options but what you go to understand
this is that this is a normal file and
this is a directory okay whether there
is D so since this is a file the access
for the user is such that I have the
read and write access okay but I can't
execute it the user can't execute it and
when it comes to the group even the
group has the read and write access but
it cannot execute it the other users
however they have only the real axis and
they cannot execute this particular file
right so they cannot execute or they
cannot write this particular file so
that's what these group permissions me
and if you go forward from group
permissions there are more other blocks
right so let's go back to the slides and
see what they stand for so in this slide
let's talk about the next three blocks
okay so the next block is data phone
number okay you have a number over here
and that represents a symbolic links all
right the block after that is the one
that represents the owner name and the 1
followed by that represents the group
name okay so that is with respect to D 3
blocks all right and then after that
comes the file size of the particular
file and then you have the timestamp the
time when the file was created the file
or the folder was created this is the
actual file size of the blocks okay now
that's what the user permissions here
represent so if I quickly go back to the
terminal and show you this is basic the
symbolic link this is the owner name
this is the group name of the file this
is the block size okay and this is all
in kilobytes okay and this is the
timestamp and this is of course the name
of the file right so we have the name of
the file and that file will have first
with the file type then user permissions
then symbolic links then the owner name
then group name then the file size
then comes the timestamp at the end so
that's what the difference file
permissions are the read write and
execute and if you want to modify any of
these file functions then it's also
possible okay now let me go to my slides
and show you how that's possible
let me show you some theory for
okay so first of all if you want to
train the permissions then you can use
the chmod command okay you can use the
chmod command as shown over here and in
order to change the access permission of
both the files and the directories if
you want to change the owner of the
particular file okay since the owner of
that particular file or directory then
you can use the CH own command and then
if you want to change the group
ownership of that file there you can use
the chgrp okay so when you use the chmod
command you got to specify whom are you
referring to are you referring to the
the user are you referring for the group
or are you referring to the other people
okay the other users you got to say that
and then you got to use either a plus
symbol or a minus symbol okay when you
use plus it means that you are adding
these two rights so in this case when
you're saying g plus WX so G stands for
group right so as you can see from this
particular slide G stands for group u
stands for users and others stands for
oh okay
and all stands for a okay so ask for
this if you're using G over here then it
means that you're talking about the
group and you are adding the W that is a
right and the execute function you know
that means you're giving them the W and
the right and the extra functions okay
and after you are specify the file name
so this means it will modify the
functions to this for this particular
file and similarly you can use the equal
to symbol and also the minus symbol so
when you use the equal to symbol then
whatever rights you have industry that
will be overwritten
so when you say chmod u is equal to r WX
and then it doesn't matter what the
previous set of functions we're then the
the previous of afformations will be
replaced by whatever you specify here so
you will be setting that particular user
to have the read write and execute
access for that file okay and then you
can in fact specify if you know you can
set access control for multiple people
you can set it for groups users all at
the same time so in this place this
command will set it for the usual here
we are setting it read write and execute
for users and then after that we are
setting it for the other people okay for
the other users we are removing the
right and the execute axis okay
there are execute permissions so let me
just quickly go to my terminal and show
you that so currently
let's take the example of
pictures okay let's take an example of
this particular folder the user that is
me I have the read write and execute
functions
the group has read and execute only okay
and they of course the other users they
also have only the read and execute now
what I'm going to do is I'm going to say
chmod I don't want to change my
permissions okay so I would rather
change the permissions that my group has
so I would say it g is equal to read and
W okay so if you see here right now
the group has read and execute okay I
don't want to give them execute so if I
want to remove X it would have to do G
minus R and then have to give comma G
plus W okay but those are two different
arguments right so integers using two
different arguments I can just give an
equal to which would replace this entire
list with the current arguments so
instead of having our own X and replace
ad with R and W read and write okay I'll
give a command and then now we have
others here the other users they have
read and execute again so what I'll do
is I will say Oh - execute because I
want to give others only the read access
okay so in this case when I do this the
X over here that will become - and the -
will become W okay I'll be enabling the
W for them and removing the execute and
for these people I will be removing the
execute and now that I've specified what
are the permissions and what the your
recipients Amaral give the file name so
let's say pictures okay
so I'm going to group the LS minus del
command again and now you can see that
if you go to pictures it's been reset so
the others have only the read access the
others are blank
okay and the group have the read and
write access
and this execute has been taken away
from them so that is with respect to the
read write and execute permissions that
users can have all right so I'm just
going to clear the screen and go back to
my slides so similarly you can change
you in the ownership of certain files
and certain groups okay so if you use a
CH own okay CH change ownership with
that's what it stands for and when I
followed that with the username and the
file name then this particular file will
have a new user or will have a new
and this would be the username okay and
similarly even the group command works
in the same fashion so this is something
that you can always work on and you can
figure it out
alright guys so that brings us to the
end of the third part of our
demonstration okay so we still have a
couple of more topics left but
unfortunately I don't think we'll be
able to cover it today because we've
already exceeded the time limit so what
we do is we'll continue the remaining
topics in tomorrow's session okay so in
tomorrow's session we'll talk about
Linux repositories tar files and Raman
variables regular expressions processes
adding users and networking ok
management working it's about SSH so
these will be the topic that I will be
covering in tomorrow's session ok so
guys on that note let me come to today's
session alright and I'll meet you all
tomorrow same time all right guys
ok a month great as you tomorrow ok good
night folks
see y'all I hope you enjoyed listening
to this video please be kind enough to
like it and you can comment any of your
doubts and queries and we will reply to
them at the earliest to look out for
more videos in our playlist and
subscribe to our Eddie Rica channel to
learn more happy learning
hello again as you know I am Eli the
computer guy over here for everyman IT
today's class is introduction to Linux
so so this is the first class in the
Linux track in this class we're going to
try to give you an overview of the
concepts that you have to understand
before you actually start using Linux so
in this class today we're not going to
be using terminals or consoles or gooeys
or any of that I'm not going to be
really showing you any commands I'm
going to be explaining to all the things
that you have to understand before you
decide to go out and actually start
trying to use Linux Linux has a lot of
benefits has a lot of good things but it
has a lot of things that can also catch
you up there there's a lot of things
that you may not think about that could
cause you problems in the future so this
class today we're going to go over we're
going to talk about what Linux is where
Linux came from and all of the
fundamental concepts that you have to
understand before you actually start
building your own Linux servers and
maintaining your own Linux systems so so
if you give me a second I'm going to put
a few things together and we're going to
get into the class introduction to Linux
so the first thing that we have to talk
about in this introduction to Linux
class is just about what Linux is and
where Linux came from so Linux is an
operating system for all of you that
don't know what an operating system is
and for all of you that think you do but
may have forgotten what an operating
system is basically the operating system
is a software layer that is between your
hardware and the software that you
actually use to get something productive
so the operating system is what allows
the software to talk to the hardware to
allow things to distort information to
hard drives to send out print jobs to
printers etc so basically you know if
you're in a normal Windows environment a
Windows operating system you have your
hardware you have the Windows operating
system and then you have office you know
Microsoft Office that sits on top of the
operating system well with Linux Linux
is an operating system that acts as an
intermediary between the hardware and
the software the main thing that you
just need to realize is that in the
Linux world the software that you're
running it is many times not the same
type of software that you would run in
the windows world that you're used to
you know desktop applications like like
Microsoft Office or Adobe Photoshop are
not usually run in a Linux environment
Linux normally runs servers so so Apache
a web server over a database server over
a virtualization server etc so basically
the first thing is Linux is an operating
system operating systems reside between
the hardware and the software it allows
the software to be able to talk to the
hardware so the Linux operating system
was created between 1991 to 1994 by this
guy named Elias Torvalds basically it
was his little pet hobby project create
his own operating system now the big
thing with Linux is because it has an X
at the end and because most of the
commands that you use look a lot like
UNIX people think that Linux is a type
of Unix and that is not the case UNIX is
its own type of operating system Linux
is its own type of
great system this guy aligned us created
from the ground up the entire Linux
operating system so there was a lot of
confusion in the world people think that
Linux is a version of UNIX and that is
not the case it was completely written
from the ground up by this guy Linus the
reason was is he wanted to create an
open-source operating system for people
to use so so back in the day you know
before 1994 unix although unix now is
open-source for the most part back in
the 90s it was not open-source if you
wanted to use unix you had to pay
somebody in order to use unix microsoft
windows of course is microsoft windows
you've always had to pay to use
microsoft windows so basically that this
guy Linus was a computer scientist
computer engineer he wanted an operating
system that was completely free because
you know him and his buddies they need
operating systems in order to create the
the cooler stuff that they want to
create you know programmers want to
create programs well if you have a free
operating system that makes it a lot
easier to create programs then if you
know you have to pay somebody to use an
operating system so he created Linux and
back in 1994 so the big thing to
remember with Linux is Linux is an
operating system it's going to look
different than Windows it's going to
look different than Mac but it is an
operating system it was created in 1994
and like I say it is not a derivative it
is has nothing to do really with Unix a
lot of people think Linux and UNIX that
Linux is a version of Unix that's not
the case Linux is as different well it's
quarter it's it's a separate from UNIX
as it is from from Microsoft Windows
it's entirely own a little critter
now after Linus uh created a Linux back
in 1994 you know it's been a lot of
energy a lot of time to create Linux and
by the time he was done you know he had
this wonderful product product that he
wanted to give to the world and he also
wanted to stop working for a little bit
I don't know if we want to stop working
for a little bit but he didn't want to
do as much work so what he did was he
made his uh his new operating system
completely open-source and then that
allowed everybody in the world every
computer geek every computer scientist
to start playing with and changing the
operating system as they saw fit
so Linus created the original Linux and
then he gave that to the world and then
people at Berkeley decided to start
creating their own little version of
Linux you know people and and China
started creating their own version of
Linux people in Brazil Linux is huge in
Brazil they started to create their own
type of Linux so he created the entire
operating system
he made the the code how he programmed
it open source so anybody could see the
code and then he just gave it out for
everybody to start playing with this in
turn created something called distros or
distributions so when you go out to
download Linux so you're really excited
you want a free operating system because
everybody loves free and Linux is more
secure as we'll talk about later so you
want you want to start playing with
Linux well the first thing that you're
going to run into is what are called
distros or distributions these are the
various versions that that people have
created over time of Linux so originally
in 1994 there was Linux Linux well then
major companies and and educational
institutions and etc decided they liked
Linux but they started creating their
own versions so now you have Red Hat
Linux which is a version of Linux you
have a bun to Linux that's a version of
Linux you have a Google Android you know
that that little smartphone operating
system that's a version of Linux so
basically a distribution is all the
different versions of Linux that are out
there now when you go to decide what
distribution you're going to use you're
going to have to think about what you
want a your
computer to do with Linux it is much
more important that you understand what
you want your computer to do before you
install the operating system than it is
with Microsoft with Microsoft and
Windows you just install Microsoft
Windows and then you can figure out what
you want to do with the server later
with Linux every distribution is built
to do things in a certain way so there's
a version called trust sticks Linux
trust sticks Linux is considered the
absolute most secure Linux out there it
is just it's just a brick use you set
that thing up and as long as you don't
do anything completely retarded nobody
can hack it no viruses can get to it it
is just it is just one solid secure
server but you have to decide that you
want a solid secure server before you go
out and finding the distribution to
install on the server so if you want if
you want a computer that you're going to
use some office applications or you're
on the city you're going to surf the web
then you may want a bun twos desktop
version if you want a super secure
computer then you might want trustus
distribution if you want something with
enterprise level support so you want to
use Linux but you want to you want to
know there's a call center out there to
help you if necessary you may decide to
use Red Hat Linux but you have to decide
what type of Linux you're going to use
or what you need your computer to do and
therefore what type of Linux you're
going to use before you install Linux
because that's the thing is if you if
you install Ubuntu Linux distribution on
all your computers and then you decide
you need enterprise support and you call
Red Hat Linux
well Red Hat Linux people don't support
Ubuntu Linux see how that all works so
the distributions like I say back in
1994 there was one Linux Linux with
Linux all these people started playing
around with Linux they start creating
their their own versions of Linux these
became distributions every distribution
does thing its own way like I say Trust
is very secure there's something called
DSL Linux it's called damn small Linux
Linux can fit within the entire
operating system can fit within 53
megabytes so basically when the
people that created the DSL distro they
just wanted a really small fast
distribution of Linux so so the main
thing to understand is all these
distributions do things differently some
do things really good some do things
really poorly you have to decide for
your computer when it's going into
production environment what do you want
that computer or that server to to and
then pick the distribution for it that
that will do whatever that is best
okay so now that we've talked about
basically where linux' came from and
distributions the next thing that we
need to talk about that's very very very
very important is open source licensing
so of course at this point in time
you've probably heard of open source
software and you are probably under the
wrong idea that open source software is
free software this is not the case we
have talked about this in other
licensing classes but here once we go
into the Linux world this has to get
beat into your head open source software
is not free software and if you treat
all open source software as if it is
free you are jeopardizing your career
you're jeopardizing your company it's
it's just bad bad legally so I just want
to go over just just for a minute about
open source software and the different
ways that open source is software
vendors get paid so so that you
understand again open source software is
not free it's not monetarily free what
open source software means is that
whenever programmers sit down to create
the code they provide you with the code
so that you can see how the program was
written because you know in the
programming world programmers sit down
they write code they throw the code
through a compiler that shoots out ones
and zeros on the other side so basically
all open source software means all the
very definition of open source software
is is that you are allowed to see the
source code you are are allowed to see
how the software was actually created
now there's four different ways that
these open source vendors get paid now
the first one is the one of course we
all like love and and it is just the
bee's knees the original my sequel model
so my sequel is an open source database
was that they gave away the software
100% for free so whether you are for
personal use whether it's nonprofit
whether it is commercial whether you're
Travelocity or whether you are Amazon
you are allowed to use the my sequel
database software absolutely and utterly
for free
reason is is the my sequel business
model stated that the their idea was
that they would give away all the
software and then when you needed help
then you would call them and then you
would pay them stupid amounts of money
to get support for the database that
you're using so basically you get the my
sequel database for free you see how
powerful it is and then you go boom I
need my sequel training so you go to my
sequel you drop three thousand dollars
for a week training and that's how they
get money that's the first way that
these these these vendors get paid this
is the one that everybody thinks all
open-source software is like but it's
not so this is where it's all completely
free the software creators the software
vendors simply get paid for support on
the product the second way and this is
one that can get you into a whole hell
of a lot of trouble so so so pay
attention with me on this one is a lot
of the open source software out there
basically the open source community they
want you know technicians geeks like us
to be able to play with the software you
know use it at home use it in computer
labs and not have to worry about legal
implications because you know with
Microsoft even if you're playing around
with the software in your computer lab
you may actually have licensing issues
and you may actually have licensing
issues that you could get sued for even
though all you're trying to do is play
around with the software so that you can
understand how it will work and so that
you can sell more of Microsoft's
products but sometimes that actually
goes against the licensing of the
product so the the second way that
open-source vendors get paid is what
they do is they say for personal or
non-commercial use it is absolutely an
utterly free as soon as you use it for
commercial use you have to pay money so
the idea is if you know you're you're a
geek at home and you want to play around
with the software you can install it you
can play around with it no problem at
all if you want to set up a computer lab
you know you're trying to figure out how
the software works you want to you want
to see you know if it'll do what your
company needs it to do no problem at all
you have it you have a complete license
the issue the problem where you get into
especially with a lot a lot of
technicians is as soon as you take that
server and you take it from the test lab
and you screw it into a server rack in
the production environment so so this is
where
the commercial businesses actually
starts to use it as soon as that happens
you now own a licensing fee and
sometimes these licensing fees can be
anywhere between 50 to $10,000 so be
very careful about this like I say
you're fine using at home
you're fine use it in the computer lab
but as soon as you screw that thing into
a server rack then you need to pay money
and like I say this is something that
can really trip people up the next way
of course with open-source software is
that they sell it just like everybody
sells software so basically you know if
you want the product you you pay them
the licensing fee and you buy it just
like if you were dealing with Adobe just
like if you're dealing with Microsoft or
QuickBooks you buy the difference with
open-source software in this model where
you just purchase the software outright
is again you can still see the source
code so if you buy the Windows operating
system or you buy QuickBooks they are
not going to give you the source code
they're not going to tell you how the
software was written well for a lot of
enterprise companies they want to see
how the software was written so
basically you buy the license outright
and then you get to see the code the one
thing you have to be very careful about
is although you see the code you have to
understand what your rights are to the
code because this is copyrighted or
patented or trademarked or whatever
material although you are allowed to see
the code you may not have rights to
modify the code so you buy the software
and you say well you know I gave
whatever SourceForge or whatever ten
thousand dollars
I see the source code and oh look on
line four hundred thousand and fifty I
don't like what that line of code does
I'm going to remove that line of code
and insert my own line of code that may
not be illegal that may be violating the
license so so be very careful with that
and then the final final way that these
open source companies get paid again
something you have to be very very
careful about is that they give away the
product for free so you can download the
server you can download the desktop you
can download the appliance or whatever
it is you're downloading the issue is is
that the license states that in order to
have the legal right to you
use this software you have to pay a
reoccuring a contract so let's say some
of the Linux vendors you can download
their server software their enterprise
class server software for free you can
play around with it it's amazing but in
order to actually use it you have to pay
anywhere between a hundred to a thousand
dollars a year in a support contract
when I was running Eli the computer guy
the repair shop this is what killed our
Linux aspirations back in the day
because I wanted to transfer clients
over to Linux at the time like Red Hat
one was one of the prominent companies
we looked at that and Red Hat required I
think was like $250 a year in a
subscription contract so although you
could download the software for free
although you can get it for free you
could install any computers there was no
activation process you still had to pay
an amount of money every single year to
keep that server within licensing
compliance so again you know here at
everyman IT we're not just you know
trying to teach you how how to how to do
programming or how to set up servers you
know I want you to either be a
consultant or be in the decision-making
process and you know as I say in a lot
of classes in my podcast these kind of
decisions how open-source licensing
works is far more important to your
business or to your enterprise than
simply you know being able to set up a
server you know this this is the kind of
stuff that can cause massive massive
amounts of damage to your company if you
install 20 servers and you don't
understand the licensing requirements
and though those are your mission
critical systems if you have to switch
those servers over to something else I
mean that may be a catastrophic problem
so so understand open source does not
mean free it has nothing to do with free
a lot a huge amount of open source
software happens to be free that doesn't
mean open source software is free what
open source means is that you are
allowed to see the source code that
created the program this doesn't mean
you're allowed to modify the source code
you're not you may not be able to do a
damn thing to the source code but at
least you are allowed to see the source
code so that you understand what is
happening so if there are flaws if
they're security holes etc you can
actually see that in the code so again
you know the ways open source licensing
works is it can either be completely
free and you simply pay the software
creator for support it can be free for
personal and non-commercial use but as
soon as you put it into a commercial
environment you have to pay again this
is one of the the things that can trip
you up because in your computer lab you
may create the entire system the entire
setup you know that server working a
hundred percent a ok and you may not
think about it you may just pick up that
server and slot it into a rack and not
realize you have to write a check to
somebody so so so be very careful about
that
the third way again is that the demanded
the Creator actually sells you the
program just like Microsoft or
QuickBooks or Adobe the difference is
you're allowed to see the source code
the one thing you have to be careful
with here is again if you are you are a
programmer or if your company has
programmers although you can see the
source code you may not have rights to
modify anything in the source code and
that's something that you have to be
very careful about and then finally
again this is something that can trip
you up you can download the software you
can install it everything's a-ok except
to be compliant with a licensing
agreement you may have to have a
reoccurring maintenance contract again
like I say in a Linux world
Linux goes from being really affordable
to being really stupidly expensive that
quick and these maintenance contracts
are one of the things that can make it
very expensive you know you install all
these servers and then all of a sudden
you're paying $250 a year every single
year that's that server is up and
running you know even with Windows
Server 2008 you pay let's say $600 and
you own the software that could end up
being cheaper for a server that's going
to be running for five to ten years so
so something to think about so this is
the open source licensing like I say
this is the kind of stuff that will make
or break your career so make sure you
take it seriously
so now we've gone through the legalese
now we need to talk about the shell of
the operating system to make sure you
understand what the shell of the
operating system is because again this
is something that a lot of people don't
think about and then it can cause them
problems so the shell of the operating
system is the screen that you use to
interact with the operating system so if
you're thinking about the Windows shell
you know if you have Windows 7 the
Windows shell is that graphical user
interface where you have a little mouse
and you go around and you can click on
pictures on the you know on your
desktops you have a desktop you have
folders you double click on a folder and
it opens up so that is a shell that is
called a gooey shell GUI graphical user
interface there are also things called
Lewy shells line user interfaces now
these look basically like DOS prompt so
if you ever if you ever play with DOS or
if you ever went into a DOS prompt a
Lying user interface is that so you know
you type in a command and you hit Enter
and then you get some words or garbage
out the other side in Linux the thing
that you have to understand about this
shell is in Linux the since this is more
of a computer scientist geeky operating
system or the people that use the
operating system are more computer
science geeky people they prefer to use
the Loess the line user interface so
basically that that dos prompt so when
you go in to Linux you can install Linux
so that you either have a graphical
component so you know you open it up and
you have little little folders to click
etc or that you just have that little
line user interface so you know you you
have to type in you know change
directory or make directory or etc the
main thing again that you just have to
remember with the shell the shell is the
screen that you use to interact with the
operating system it can be line user
interface or it can be a graphical unit
user interface in Linux they prefer the
line user interface and the line user
interface is much more
powerful then the graphical unified you
graphic graphical user interface in the
Linux world the thing is is when you
when you install Linux and doing a line
user interface all you're going to get
is a prompt so if you don't know what
you need to do you're kind of stuck I
had a lot of clients who did this where
they wanted to play and use Linux and so
they would install Linux and then they
would just get this flashing cursor and
since they didn't know any commands they
didn't know what to do so basically
that's the thing with with the Linux and
the line user interface is you're going
to have to understand the commands in
order to get the computer to do anything
that you need it to do but the shell
again the shell is a screen that you use
to interact with the operating system
and like I say that this whole track is
gone about be about how to how to
administer and manage Linux
now the next biggest concept that you
have to understand when you're going to
be using Linux is the concept of route
route is probably the biggest or one of
the biggest concepts with Linux
so root means the highest level of
anything so when you hear about the root
user the root user is like in a in the
Microsoft Windows world is the
administrator for the computer the root
user is the highest level user that you
can be on the computer so if you can log
in as root you can do anything in the
world you want to with a computer so
root if they say log in as root the
actual username is root you log in and
and you are now logged in as the highest
level user for the computer root can
also mean of their the root of the
operating system so where is the
operating system installed the highest
level that the operating system is
installed at so they could say the root
of the operating system in the root of
the operating system might be C colon
backslash so that is is the root root
can also mean the highest level that a
user can get into so so in in Linux
users have home folders right so the
home folder holds you know all their
stuff you know application settings
documents pictures all that kind of
stuff so the root of the user would be
their home directory the home directory
is the highest level for the user so the
main thing to understand is whenever
you're talking about root and Linux root
is the highest level of anything if
you're talking about the root user well
there's actually a user account called
root and that user account is the
absolute highest level user that you can
be in the operating system the root can
do anything if you're talking about the
the computer or the operating system the
root of the operating system is where
the operating system is stored so the
highest level where the operating system
is story or
root of the user is like I say with user
accounts when you create them they have
a home folder that's created so the root
of the user would be home
so again root is the highest level of
anything just keep that in mind because
like I say once we go into actually
starting to type and do stuff in Linux
this concept of root is going to be very
important
okay now we have to talk about something
that just just screws with everybody's
head who has ever dealt with Windows
when they go to the Linux world and that
is capitalization in the Linux world so
so basically you know you have uppercase
letters and you have lowercase letters
write uppercase L lowercase L well in
the windows world Windows doesn't care
if you put in an uppercase or a
lowercase so if you have a folder named
home uppercase H lowercase that is the
same as this which is the same as this
which is the same as this in the windows
world Windows except for when it comes
to passwords doesn't care about
capitalization so this home is the same
as this home as the same as this home is
the same as this home Windows does not
care here is the issue in the Linux
world remember Linux was created by and
basically for computer professionals
computer scientists computer engineers
etc and you see these letters are coded
in something called ASCII text so this
is all something called ASCII text well
an ASCII text an uppercase H or an
uppercase letter is actually a different
character than a lowercase letter so an
uppercase H is a different character
than a lowercase H what this means is
that in the Linux world these would all
be considered different folders so if
you have a folder and you call at home
uppercase H lowercase om e that is a
different folder in the Linux world than
this which is a different for Wordle
than this which is a different folder
than this in Windows these are all the
same folders in Linux these are all
different folders so if you go you know
do a change directory and you have a a
folder named home with an uppercase egg
but I don't know for some reason you
type in this it will not be able to find
that folder because this folder does not
exist this folder does exist so
basically in the Linux
capitalization matters an uppercase
letter is different and it actually is
different in how it is encoded than a
lowercase letter so this if these are
folders this is a different folder than
this which is a different folder than
this which is a different folder than
this one of the places this can cause
you a lot of problems and you have
probably already seen this with some of
the websites you use is this also is
true of your username login so you know
your username so you're used to putting
in your username and your password right
and again if you put an uppercase user
uppercase all user lowercase user those
all work so whatever your username is
your used to be and we just type it in
willy-nilly as long as it has the right
letters in it again in the Linux world
capitalization matters so again this
user name would be different than this
username which would be different than
this username which will be different
than this username so in the Linux world
all these user names would be different
because they use different
capitalization so remember that for
Linux Linux I mean it's not complicated
it's just so people are so used to the
windows world where capitalization
doesn't matter but in Linux it does so
capitalization matters if you type in a
username all uppercase in order to log
in you're going to have to use all upper
case in order to log in pretty simple
stuff just remember capitalization is
absolutely and utterly important in the
Linux world
okay so we've talked about where Linux
came from is Korea back in 94 we've
created talked about distributions these
are all the different little versions of
Linux that are running around we've
talked about the whole open-source
question you know how much is it going
to cost you to use this this free
software or is it really free we talked
about the shell the route we've talked
about capitalization capitalization is a
huge thing remember uppercase home is
different than lowercase home now you
know you're getting excited and so
probably before the next class when I
start showing you how to install Linux
you may run out there and decide I'm
going to download Linux and I'm going to
start installing and playing with it
well I want to give you a warning about
about the two generally the different
versions of Linux that almost everybody
is going to provide so whether you go to
a thread hat whether you go to a bun to
DSL you know whatever distribution is
out there they're normally normally
going to have two versions of the
distribution one is going to be the
server version the other is going to be
the desktop version so so you know you
guys are IT guys you want to be here
you're aspiring geeks and you say I
don't want the desktop version I want
the server version that might be a
mistake
at least at this point in the game the
main difference between the server
versions and the desktop versions of any
of these Linux operating systems is that
the server version is a stripped-down
version of the Linux because they figure
if you're going to be installing a
server you know what you want installed
on the server so so there will be no
graphical user interface a lot of the
the tools that you use to administer
Linux will not be installed
automatically because they figure if you
want the tool and you're down whether
you're installing server then you know
how to install the tool so the server
version of almost any Linux distribution
is the stripped-down version this has no
graphical user interface all you get is
that little DOS prompt like I say a lot
of the tools that you will use to
administer the server are not
automatically installed because again
they figure that if you know what you
need that you will install it you are
probably better off at this point in
time to down
load the desk top version the desktop
versions of these distributions give you
the graphical univer interface right off
the bat so you install the desktop
version and you have the graphical
interface you have something that it
looks like Windows or it looks like Mac
you know you you have a desktop you have
folders you can right-click you can
left-click you can double click
basically although it is different you
know as the tie the tie is a same same
but different
it it it functions differently and you
are going to have to learn how to use
Linux but it's an environment that you
are probably going to understand as soon
as you boot into it so that's the main
thing the server all you're going to get
is a DOS prompt and the most minimal
applications or utilities that that the
distribution needs to run so so anything
anything basically you're going to need
to use to actually manage the server
you're probably going to have to install
as an additional application whereas
with the desktop version you're going to
boot straight into a graphical
environment it's already going to have
management tools installed and you know
you can play around and you can figure
out how to use that graphical
environment so those are the two
versions like I say whether you're using
ubuntu Red Hat SUSE they almost all have
a server and a desktop version from me
to you download install the desktop
version first because like I say if you
install the server version all you're
going to get the DOS prompt and if you
don't know what to do next
there's nothing to do
so now I've been talking about Linux you
know you may be thinking wow this is
this is really exciting you know it's
it's a free operating system as long as
you get the right distribution I'm just
going to run out there I'm gonna I'm
gonna install Linux and all I'm going to
use is Linux and Linux is great you know
a lot a lot of people when when when de
a Microsoft Vista or Windows Vista came
out you know there were so many problems
you know all the pundits were talking
about everybody was going to go to Linux
well Linux is good for some things uh
pretty good for other things an absolute
crap for a whole bunch of stuff let me
tell you as a desktop operating system
Linux really is not up to speed
I've tried to use Linux as a desktop
operating system and even me as a
computer geek it's a pain in the butt
it's a bit quirky it freezes up and and
does weird stuff as bad as Windows 98
ever did so as a desktop operating
system you can play around with it and
it may be good for you but be careful
like I say it can be really quirky as
hell I use you know on my computers
Windows 7 the reason I use Windows 7 is
I don't want to pay for a Mac and
Windows 7 is actually pretty good it's
it's very functional it does what it
needs to do the reason I would say that
you should learn Linux and start
deploying Linux is for server
functionality Linux is incredibly rock
solid
once you install Linux once you once you
get through the quirks and you set up
all the configurations a Linux server
will run till the CPU overheats it will
just run run run run run run run run run
the server that is running our website
everyman IT you know it's been up for a
hundred and fifty days continuously
right now and does not need a reboot in
any way the the only reboot that I did
150 days ago what was for some
maintenance the way that the Linux
operating system is built it's not like
Windows we're an easier rebooted every
Tuesday or you know it just you have
memory leaks and it just crashes Linux
as long as you can figure it properly
we'll just
run and it will just do its job day in
day out day and day out day in day out
so the the reason I would say that you
should look at deploying Linux for
yourself or for your clients is for
server functionality whether its Apache
web servers micro my sequel database
servers Xen virtualization servers email
servers etc when you set up a Linux
server that thing is rock-solid and it
will just keep running running running
running running running running you're
not going to have the same problem you
have with the windows where you know you
install windows on a computer today and
it works really great but then you keep
getting all these updates and two years
from now the computer is working slow
slower because all the updates that
Microsoft has delivered have actually
decreased the performance of your
computer we saw this a lot with Windows
XP it's not the case with Linux you
install Linux and it is just going to be
it's just it's just going to be a brick
it's just going to keep doing what you
configured it to do so as long as you
can figured it properly like I say it'll
be a rock and it'll just keep running
until the idle the actual electronics
die the warning that I will give you is
you know if you're learning Linux please
feel free to play with the desktop
version of the operating system you know
install it on your laptop install on
your desktop my honest opinion I swear
to god I'm a computer guy is that it's
not up to snuff yet as an actual desktop
operating system when I installed it
when I played multiple versions like I
say it was just quirky it froze up
different just stupid stupid stupid
problems so it's not in primetime for
the desktop operating system as a server
it's absolutely phenomenal you know if
you're if you're going to be hosting
websites definitely an Apache web server
is a great thing you know my sequel etc
so Linux is great for servers kind of
crappy for the desktop though I would
suggest you know just one geek to
another really think about using Linux
like again for the server functionality
so that was a class introduction to
Linux you know we didn't show you any
commands or we didn't show you any of
that kind of stuff today because they're
the most important thing right now is
that you have a good foundation and
understand where Linux came from and
then just some of the basic concepts
about it you know we talked about Linus
Torvalds who created Linux between 1991
to 1994 we taught about the very
important thing he created Linux from
scratch Linux is not a derivative of
Unix Linux does has nothing to do with
Unix a lot of people think that like
Linux is some kind of weird version of
Unix it is not the case Linux is it is
its own kettle of fish the reason people
think that Linux and UNIX are similar is
simply because when he was coding Linux
he made it so most of the commands that
work in Unix will work in Linux so you
type in the same commands you know what
happens after you type in the command
might be different but you type in the
same commands that you would in Unix but
Linux and UNIX are different again after
1994 he released Linux to the world so
you know everybody could use it
everybody could play with it everybody
could do whatever it is they wanted to
do with it so all these computer science
geeks you know you go out for dates and
you go to the movies and I don't know
you go play golf
well these computer science geeks they
go home and program operating system so
they found this wonderful Linux
operating system Linus really done a
good job and so they started creating
their own versions of Linux depending on
what they wanted it to some people
wanted to be more secure some people
wanted to be faster some people wanted
to use it for web servers etc this is
where distributions came from or distros
so distros or distributions are simply
different versions of Linux some of the
distros are very similar some of the
distros have almost nothing to do with
each other
so the main thing to understand is when
you're thinking about deploying your
server to do whatever it is you want it
to do the distro matters if you install
the wrong distribution of Linux it may
not be able to do what it is you want it
to do best so so that's the
distributions we talked about open
source again this is a huge cute huge
issue you know what we're trying to
take you how to how to be you know more
than simply the the computer monkey you
know typing in commands try to take you
that the thought process behind being
real professionals and real
professionals need to understand
licensing you know it when you go when
you have a proposal for the executive
for the CEO or for your boss not only do
you have to tell them you know what what
computers and hardware you need but you
also have to tell them licensing
requirements open-source licensing again
all open-source licensing means is
you're allowed to see the source code it
doesn't mean that it is free open-source
has nothing to do with free we talked
about the shell so the shell is the
interface you use to interact with the
computer so in the windows world you
were used to using a gooey shell a
graphical user interface you have files
and folders and you double-click and
right-click and you get beeps and all
that kind of stuff there's also the
Louie the line user interface this is
what you would associate as a DOS prompt
the main thing to remember in the Linux
world is again created by computer
people computer scientists and computer
engineers they prefer to use the line
user interface where you actually have
to type in commands where you know we've
talked about this can cause real
problems is most of the time if you
download the server version of any Linux
distribution you don't get the graphical
user interface automatically when you
download it so you install the server
version and all you gets a little
blinking cursor at the end and if you
know the commands to do what it is you
need to do it'll work if you don't know
what the commands are you're kind of
stuck I talked about root so root is the
highest level of anything in Linux so
the root user is the highest level user
in a Linux computer the root user can do
anything it wants to the Linux computer
the root of the folder or like the root
of the operating system is where the
operating system is installed so if they
say go to the root of the operating
system you would go to whatever folder
the operating system is installed in the
root of user accounts you know in Linux
when you create user accounts they get
little little folders home folder just
like you get in Windows so the root of
the user account would be in that home
folder we talked about capitalization
capitalization is a simple but huge
issue in Linux an uppercase H is
different than a lowercase H so
uppercase letters are different than
lowercase letters if you type in your
username all uppercase when you are
creating the account and then when you
try to log in you type it in all
lowercase it is going to fail out you
are not going to be able to log in
because the username is not correct
because in the Linux world it really is
not correct remember capitalization is a
huge huge huge thing again we talked
about the server and desktop versions of
Linux the server version the stripped
down the most the barest level of an
operating system you can have again you
install it you get a little little
blinking cursor and very little is
installed on that computer when you
install the server operating system why
the people that create whatever Linux
distribution you're dealing with figure
if you're installing a server you know
what you want running on that system so
they give you the bare-bones system so
that you can install only what you need
the desktop version whenever you
download desktop version like I say from
from Ubuntu or suck that will you know
you'll boot into a graphical user
interface you'll you'll boot into
something that you know vaguely looks
like Windows or the Mac operating system
you'll have files and folders in the
desktop and little little graphics and
sounds and all of that so you know when
you first start playing with Linux I
would suggest you download the desktop
version again when it boots up you're
going to get something that you're going
to have a vague idea at least what to do
with if you download and install the
server version you just get a little
little blinking cursor and that's it I
talked about you know what Linux is good
for again as I would say for servers and
security and such it is amazing our
server has just been runnin runnin
runnin runnin runnin runnin runnin
runnin runnin runnin Linux servers can
go for years without a reboot it is
simply how they are built you know
Windows servers if you rebooted every
once in while they have to get all these
updates etc Linux servers they do
actually have to get updates every once
in a while but most of the time they
just run run run run run they literally
run until the hardware fails the bad
part with them is though like I say I've
used the
Desktop versions the graphical user
interfaces I mean they're not bad for
things like data recovery computers or
for computers that I use for appliances
you know within a repair shop but I
would not suggest the desktop version
for average users and I sure as hell
would not deploy it to average users
again they're a little buggy they are
different than Windows so you know you
you migrate users over to Linux Linux is
going to be a little buggy on you it's
going to be different it's just going to
be a pain in the butt like I say my
systems at home they all run Windows 7
the reason is is Windows 7 really is
good you know I can buy I can install
and buy all the software that I need and
like I say at the end of the day it
works very well so so Linux and why I
say you can go to the desktop route
that's your business I would suggest at
least for your clients it's awesome for
service is amazing for servers whether
you're dealing with lamp that means
basically a web server whether you're
dealing with email servers file servers
backup servers etc you really just can't
ask for better so that was a class
introduction to Linux you know these are
all the basic concepts that you should
understand before you start working on
Linux our knack next class we're going
to be installing Linux and pass that
we're going to do the basic utilities
and Linux Linux is easy again you know
as I say with almost all this stuff it
is easy if you take it step by step if
you buy one of those Linux Bibles that's
about that big and you try to figure out
how to use Linux using one of those
Bibles it's going to seem like you need
a PhD in order to use Linux it's not the
case Linux really is pretty simple
you just have to chop it down into
bite-sized pieces and then once you
understand those little bite-sized
pieces you go wow why haven't I been
using Linux for servers for a year it
really is true so as you know I'm Eli
the computer guy over here for everyman
IT as always it's been a real pleasure
to teach this class and look forward to
seeing you at the next one
hello and welcome to a beginner's guide
to Linux bye shadow forms productions if
you've come across this video you've
probably heard about Linux on the
internet or from friends that use Linux
but you don't exactly know what it is
let's assume that you're a novice with
computers when you turn on your PC
chances are it's running Windows or Mac
OS X Microsoft Windows and Mac OS X are
examples of an operating system put
simply an operating system is the
software that operates your computer
Windows has a taskbar which you use to
run your applications a file browser
that you use to manage your files like
photos and music a web browser to access
the internet and more Linux officially
known as gönül UNIX is another
operating system with its own desktop
file browser and tens of thousands of
different software applications so
here's the big question
if Linux does everything that Windows
does then why would I use Linux as my
computer's operating system well there
are a few key differences between Linux
and other operating systems like Windows
and Mac OS first is that Linux is open
source software which basically means
that anyone can change the operating
system if someone doesn't like the way
part of Linux works they are able to
change it any way they like to suit
their needs because of this particular
type of licensing you see many different
versions of Linux or distributions
available each of them are similar but
with their own benefits and all our
Linux what this means is that you have
the freedom of choice to find the
version of Linux that works best for you
and believe me there's distribution out
there for everyone while operating
systems like Windows or Mac OS may suit
your needs just fine if there's
something about the way it works that
bothers are noisy there's very little
chance of it being changed or improved
the second big difference is cost
currently Windows 8 Pro runs for $40 at
its cheapest and Mac OS mountain line
runs for 20 while both are much cheaper
than they used to be you have always
been able to download most distributions
of Linux completely free of cost
with software improvements and bug fixes
to Linux offered free as well
application software is the same story
almost all software for Linux is free
from office suites to web applications
games and even photo and video editors
another key differences Linux offers a
variety of desktop environments that you
can use many open-source developers have
created intuitive desktop environments
for Linux that work in their own unique
way to help you better interact with
your computer one of the most popular
desktops for Linux is called known they
released version 3.6 in september 2012
which uses an overview pane by default
to manage your windows and applications
instead of a traditional taskbar and
start menu to open a program or switch
windows you would click the activities
button in the top left corner or move
your mouse all the way to the top left
corner of the screen
another popular desktop environment is
the Kay desktop environment or KDE KDE
has a desktop and taskbar similar to
Windows but is incredibly customizable
allowing you to make the desktop and
taskbar exactly how you want it you can
add a number of extra features to the
taskbar and desktop with widgets which
are customizable controls to enhance
your desktop capabilities to summarize
for many Linux means freedom the freedom
to use your computer how you want it
with as few restrictions as possible as
with learning anything new there is a
learning curve but luckily there are
many options for trying Linux on your PC
without actually affecting your current
operating system or data which I'll
include a few options in the details
below so whether you use the computer to
browse the
perform office tasks graphic design
games or even as a video producer like
me
Linux offers an endless array of
computing possibilities
