hello everyone so far in this series on
data structures we have talked about
some of the linear data structures like
array linked lists stack and queue in
all these structures data is arranged in
a linear or sequential manner so we can
call them linear data structures and
we've also talked about tree which is a
nonlinear data structure tree is a
hierarchical structure now as we
understand data structures are ways to
store and organize theta and for
different kinds of data we use different
kinds of data structures in this lesson
we are going to introduce you to another
nonlinear data structure and that has
got its application in a wide number of
scenarios in computer science it is used
to model and represent a variety of
systems and this data structure is graph
when we study data structures we often
first study them as mathematical or
logical models here also we will first
study graph as a mathematical or logical
model and we will go into implementation
details later okay so let's get started
a graph just like a tree is a collection
of objects or entities that we call
nodes or vertices connected to each
other through a set of edges but in a
tree connections are bound to be in a
certain way in a tree there are rules
dictating the connection among the nodes
in a tree with n nodes we must have
exactly n minus 1 edges one edge for
each parent-child relationship as we
know an edge in a tree is for a
parent-child relationship and all nodes
in a tree except the root node would
have a parent would have exactly one
parent and that's why if there are n
nodes there must be exactly n minus 1
edges in a tree all nodes must be
reachable from the root and there must
be exactly one possible path from root
to a node now in a graph there are no
rules dictating the connection among the
nodes a graph contains a set of nodes
and a set of edges and edges can be
connecting nodes in any possible way
tree is only a special
kind of graph now graph as a concept has
been studied extensively in mathematics
if you have taken a course on discrete
mathematics then you must be knowing
about crafts already in computer science
we basically study and implement the
same concept of graph from mathematics
the study of graphs is often referred to
as craft theory in pure mathematical
terms we can define graph something like
this a graph G is an ordered pair of a
set V of vertices and a set of edges now
I'm using some mathematical jargon here
an ordered pair is just a pair of
mathematical objects in which the order
of objects in the pair matters this is
how we write and represent an ordered
pair objects separated by comma put
within parentheses now because the order
here matters we can say that V is the
first object in the pair and E is the
second object an ordered pair a B is not
equal to B a unless a and B are equal in
our definition of graph here first
object in the pair must always be a set
of vertices and the second object must
be a set of edges that's why we are
calling the pair an ordered pair we also
have concept of an ordered pair an
unordered pair is simply a set of two
elements order is not important here we
write an unordered pair using curly
brackets or braces because the order is
not important here an ordered pair a B
is equal to B a it doesn't matter which
object is first and which object is
second okay coming back so a graph is an
ordered pair of a set of vertices and a
set of edges and G equal V E is a formal
mathematical notation that we use to
define a graph now I have a craft drawn
here in the write this graph has 8
vertices and 10 edges what I want to do
is I want to give some names to these
vertices because each node in a graph
must have some identification it can be
a name or it can be an
index I'm naming these vertices as V 1 V
2 V 3 V 4 V 5 and so on and this naming
is not indicative of any order there is
no first second and third node here I
could give any name to any node so my
set of what he sees here is this we have
eight elements in the set v1 v2 v3 v4 v5
v6 v7 and v8 so this is my set of
vertices for this graph now what's my
set of edges to answer this we first
need to know how to represent an edge an
edge is uniquely identified by its two
endpoints so we can just write the names
of the two endpoints of an edge as a
pair and it can be a representation for
the edge but edges can be of two types
we can have a directed edge in which
connection is one way or we can have an
undirected edge in which connection is
two way in this example graph that I'm
showing here edges are undirected but if
you remember the tree that I had shown
earlier then we have directed edges in
that free with this directed edge that
I'm showing you here we are saying that
there is a link or path from vertex u to
V but we cannot assume a path from V to
u this connection is one way for a
directed edge one of the endpoints would
be the origin and the other endpoint
would be the destination and we draw the
edge with an arrowhead pointing towards
the destination for our edge here origin
is U and destination is V a directed
edge can be represented as an ordered
pair first element in the pair can be
the origin and second element can be the
destination so with this directed edge
represented as ordered pair UV we have a
path from u to V if we want a path from
V to u we need to draw another directed
edge here with V as origin and u as
destination and this edge can be
represented as ordered pair V you
the upper one here is UV and the below
one is vu and they are not same
now if the edge is undirected the
connection is two-way an undirected edge
can be represented as an unordered pair
here because the edge is bi-directional
origin and destination are not fixed we
only need to know what two endpoints are
being connected by the edge so now that
we know how to represent edges we can
write the set of edges for this example
graph here we have an undirected edge
between v1 and v2 then we have one
between v1 and v3 and then we have v1 v4
this is really simple I'll just go ahead
and write all of them so this is my set
of edges typically in a graph all edges
would either be directed or undirected
it's possible for a graph to have both
directed and undirected edges but we are
not going to study such graphs we are
only going to study graphs in which all
edges would either be directed or
undirected a graph with all directed
edges is called a directed graph or
digraph and a graph with all undirected
edges is called an undirected graph
there is no special name for an
undirected graph usually if the graph is
directed we explicitly say that it's a
directed graph or digraph so these are
two types of graph directed graph or
digraph in which edges are
unidirectional or ordered pairs and
undirected graph in which edges are
bi-directional or unordered pairs now
many real-world systems and problems can
be modeled using a graph graphs can be
used to represent any collection of
objects having some kind of pairwise
relationship let's have a look at some
of the interesting examples a social
network like Facebook can be represented
as an undirected graph a user would be a
node in the graph and if two users are
French there would be an edge connecting
them a real social network would have
millions and billions of nodes I can
show only few in my diagram here because
I am short of space
now social network is an undirected
graph because friendship is a mutual
relationship if I am your friend you are
my friend too so connections have to be
two-way now once a system is modeled as
a graph a lot of problems can easily be
solved by applying standard algorithms
in graph theory like here in this social
network let's say we want to do
something like suggest friends to a user
let's say we want to suggest some
connections to Rama one possible
approach to do so can be suggesting
friends of friends who are not connected
already Rama has three friends Ella Bob
and Katie and Friends of these three
that are not connected to Rama already
can be suggested there is no friend of
Allah which is not connected to Rama
already Bob however has three friends
storm Sam and Lea that are not friends
with Rama so they can be suggested and
Katie has two friends Lee and Swati that
are not connected to Rama we have
counted Li already so in all we can
suggest these four users to Rama
now even though we described this
problem in context of a social network
this is a standard crafts problem the
problem here in pure graph terms is
finding all nodes having length of
shortest path from a given node equal to
two standard algorithms can be applied
to solve this problem we'll talk about
concepts like path in a graph in some
time for now just know that the problem
that we just described in context of a
social network is a standard crafts
problem okay so a social network like
Facebook is an undirected graph now
let's have a look at another example
interlinked web pages on the internet or
the world wide web can be represented as
a directed graph of web page that would
have a unique address or URL would be a
node in the graph and we can have a
directed edge if a page contains link to
another page now once again there are
billions of pages on the web but I can
show only few here the edges in this
graph are directed because
relationship is not mutual this time if
page a has a link to page B then it's
not necessary that page B will also have
a link to page a let's say one of the
pages on my code school comm has a
tutorial on craft and on this page I
have put a link to Wikipedia article on
graph let's assume that in this example
graph that I'm showing you here page B
is my my code school tutorial on graph
with this address or URL my code school
comm / videos / graph and let's say page
Q is the Wikipedia article on graph with
this URL wikipedia.org
/ wiki / graph now on my page that is
page P I have put a link to Wikipedia
page and graph if you are on page P you
can click on this link and go to page Q
but wikipedia has not reciprocated to my
favor by putting a link back to my page
so if you are on page Q you cannot click
on a link and come to page P connection
here is one way and that's why we have
drawn a directed edge here okay now once
again if we are able to represent web as
a directed graph we can apply standard
graph theory algorithms to solve
problems and perform tasks one of the
tasks that search engines like Google
perform very regularly is web crawling
search engines use a program called web
crawler that systematically browses the
worldwide web to collect and store data
about web pages search engines can then
use this data to provide quick and
accurate results against search queries
now even though in this context we are
using a nice and heavy term like web
crawling web crawling is basically draft
traversal or in simpler words act of
visiting all nodes in a graph and no
prizes for guessing that there are
standard algorithms for craft traversal
and we'll be studying graph traversal
algorithms in later lessons okay now the
next thing that I want to talk about is
concept of a weighted graph sometimes in
a graph all connections cannot be
treated as equal some connections can be
preferable to others like for example we
can represent intercity through a
network that is the network of highways
and freeways between cities as an
undirected graph I am assuming that all
highways would be bi-directional
intra-city road network that is road
network within a city would definitely
have one-way roads and so intra-city
road network must be represented as a
directed graph but intercity road
network in my opinion can be represented
as an undirected graph now clearly we
cannot treat all connections as equal
here roads would be of different lengths
and to perform a lot of tasks to solve a
lot of problems we need to take lengths
of roads into account in such cases we
associate some weight or cost with every
edge we label the edges with their
weights in this case weight can be
lengths off the roads so what I'll do
here is I'll just label these edges with
some values for their length and let's
say these values are in kilometers and
now edges in this graph are weighted and
this graph can be called a weighted
graph let's say in this graph we want to
pick the best route from City a to city
D have a look at these 4 possible routes
I'm showing them in different colors now
if I would treat all edges as equal then
I would say that the green route through
B and C and the red route through E and
F are equally good both these paths have
3 edges and this yellow route through E
is the best because we have only two
edges in this path but with different
weights assigned to the connections I
need to add up weights of edges in a
path to calculate total cost when I'm
taking weight into account
shortest route is through B and C
connections have different weights and
this is really important here in this
graph actually we can look at all the
graphs as weighted graphs and unweighted
graph can basically be seen as a
weighted graph in which weight of all
the edges is same and typically we
assume the weight as 1
okay so we have represented inter-cities
road network as a weighted undirected
graph social network was an unweighted
undirected graph and World Wide Web was
an unweighted directed graph and this
one is a weighted undirected graph now
this was anticipated what I think
intra-city road network that is road
network within a city can be modeled as
a weighted directed graph because in a
city there would be some one-ways
intersections in intra-city road network
would be nodes and Road segments would
be our edges and by the way we can also
draw an undirected graph as directed
it's just that for each undirected edge
we'll have two directed edges we may not
be able to redraw our directed graph as
undirected but we can always redraw an
undirected graph as directed okay I'll
stop here now this much is good for an
introductory lesson in next lesson we
will talk about some more properties of
graph this is it for this lesson thanks
for watching
here for you is the easiest way that
I've ever found to graph parabolas it's
a two-step process where all you have to
do is find the vertex of the parabola
and then use a step pattern to generate
more points the step pattern you're
going to memorize for parabolas is 1 3 5
7 and you're gonna have to multiply it
by any number that's in front of your x
squared I'll show you what that means in
just a little bit if you're asked to
graph this you need to find the vertex
and we can read the vertex directly off
of this because it's in vertex form the
vertex of this turns out to be at
negative 4 because we flip the sign in
here and negative 4 negative 4 negative
4 and the number out in front is just 1
so it's 1 3 5 7 4 the step pattern and
here's what that means if you take a
look at my ultra-sophisticated graph
paper here the vertex is at negative 4
negative 4 let me put a point there
there's my vertex and now the step
pattern 1 3 5 7 means you go over 1 up 1
over 1 up 1 over 1 up 3 over 1 up 1 2 3
from that new point over 1 up 5 over 1
up 1 2 3 4 5 and you do this in both
directions so you go over 1 up 1 over 1
up 3 over 1 up 5 and then just draw a
line through all those points
and you have you the parabola over 1 up
1 over 1 up 3 over 1 up 5 and if you had
room we could go over 1 up 7 up 9 at
cetera you could be asked to graph
slightly more complicated things like
negative x squared minus 2x minus 1
again all you have to do is find the
vertex then use the step pattern now my
way to find the vertex is to use
negative B over 2a which in this case is
negative negative 2 this is B in front
of your x over 2 times a a here is
negative one this gives me 2 divided by
negative 2 turns out to be negative 1
it's the x coordinate of the vertex then
we plug that back into the equation
negative negative 1 squared minus 2
times negative 1 minus 1 see we just
plug it in negative 1 everywhere there
was X calculate this you can use a
calculator if you want I get negative 1
plus 2 minus 1 oh I get 0 well that was
cool so my vertex is at negative 1 and 0
see X and then Y but my step pattern
which is normally 1 3 5 7 we have to
multiply by the number in front of x
squared negative 1 negative 3 negative 5
negative 7 and on and on let me show you
how that manifests itself what that
means is that we have our vertex at
negative 1 and 0 that's here negative 1
and 0 then we use a set pattern negative
1 negative 3 negative 5 negative 7 and
so we go over 1 down 1 because it's
negative over 1 down 3
for one down five now I don't have room
for that but that's life
over 1 down 1 over 1 down 3 and keep
going as much as you can then draw a
line through those or draw a curve I
guess I should say through those points
and you have your parabola with the
vertex at negative 1 0 and it goes over
1 down 1 over 1 down 3 over 1 down 5 and
on let's do this last one 2x minus 5
minus 7 now this is also written in one
of those nice forms for us where we can
read the vertex directly off of it
positive 5 negative 7 put the sign in
here keep that as it is and we normally
have our step pattern of 1 3 5 7 belief
to multiply it by whatever is in front
of your x squared - so your step pattern
becomes 2 6 10 14 see we multiplied each
of those by 2 another way to think of
this is that normally you go over 1 up 1
over 1 up 3
but the parabola has been stretched
vertically by 2 so instead of going up 1
you got to go up by 2 instead of going
up by 3 you got to go up 6 let's graph
that vertex at 5 negative 7 5 negative 7
is way down here and the step pattern
over 1 up to 2 over 1 up 6 1 2 3 4 5 6
over 1 up 10 that's not going to fit
over 1 up 2 over 1 up 6 use your step
pattern draw a curve through those it's
not gonna be the nicest curve there we
go
and you'll see their work as long as we
can start at the vertex and then use
this step pattern stretched or flipped
as necessary according to whatever's in
front of the x squared
be it 1 negative 1 positive 2 just
multiply your step pattern 1 3 5 7 by
that to generate more points over 1 up 1
over 1 up 3 over 1 up 5 times that
number that's in front
1 2 you get it
Amba what are you doing all the way up
there I wanted to see how the forest
looks from the top
what a lovely sight the green treetops
and the open skies I could say are
forever I know it's a lovely forest but
it's time to go home come down now okay
mom how many trees are there in our
forest I don't know amber thousands of
them I guess which one's the tallest the
people trees are the tallest and which
one's the second tallest amber now what
is all this about I want to climb up a
very tall tree and look at the forest
but it shouldn't be too high or I will
get scared hmm that can be solved so
tell me what should be the perfect
height of a tree so you can get a good
view a little higher then I was right
now hmm
so about 6 meters okay and at what
height you start panicking and not climb
higher I try to get to the top of the
people create the other day but it was
too tall the people trees are about 8
meters tall so we need to find trees
which are between 6 and 8 meters for you
to climb how will we do that we make a
bar graph bar graph a bar graph is a
type of a graph in which we show data in
the form of rectangular bars or columns
hmm so listen we have apple trees mango
trees orange trees
neem trees and people trees in our
forest a mango tree is around seven
meters tall an apple tree is around five
meters an orange tree is around four
meters a people tree is eight meters
tall and an entry is around seven meters
now all we need to do is draw a bar
graph showing these heights over I
cannot draw seven meter tree on paper my
notebook is too small for it yes that's
right but what you can do is assume that
every line on your notebook represents
one meter so seven meters will be shown
as seven lines yes come let's draw the
graph here is a bar graph of the heights
of the trees and each line shows one
meter yes this is a vertical bar graph
cool while drawing a vertical bar graph
you can specify what each horizontal
line shows like here it means one meter
right yes exactly like that you can
assume it shows two or five or even
hundred depending on the kind of numbers
you want to show on the graph okay so
you wanted to know which trees are
taller than six meters but shorter than
eight meters right right now what are
the bars that are within the two red
lines Ango people and named trees so
there you go these trees are perfect for
you to climb oh wow that was brilliant
more
instead of a vertical bar graph we can
also draw the same graph horizontally oh
this is known as a horizontal bar graph
the way of making this graph is the same
but here instead of drawing the height
we draw the width cool thanks mom you're
the best I'm off now but wait where are
you going to find a mango or named tree
so I can climb it
ha ha ha ha ha let's revise all that we
have learned about bar graphs a vertical
bar graph is a type of graph in which we
show data in the form of rectangular
bars you can specify what each
horizontal line stands for in a bar
graph depending on the numbers that you
need to represent horizontal bar graphs
are exactly like vertical bar graphs in
horizontal bar graphs we draw with
instead of height
Hi there.
My name is Emma and in today's video we're going
to talk about the test known as the IELTS.
So if you are going to be writing
the IELTS, this video is for you.
Now, in this video we're talking specifically
about if you're writing the academic IELTS.
If you're, you know, just here for general
interest, you can still learn quite a bit
from this video because we will be talking
about different vocabulary and grammar.
So this video can also help you if
you're not taking the IELTS also.
Okay, so what are we going to be talking
about specifically in this video?
Well, if you're taking the IELTS you probably
know that there's a writing part of the IELTS.
The writing part has two sections, we call
them Writing Task 1 and Writing Task 2.
In this video I'm going to cover
a small bit of Writing Task 1.
So, in Writing Task 1 you're going to
be given some sort of visual image.
Okay?
So you might see something
like this, this, or this.
It might be a chart, it might be a table,
but you're going to see some sort of visual
and you need to describe
what you're seeing.
So this video...
I've covered different types of Writing Task
1 and I'll talk about the links to some of
these other videos at the end, but in this
specific video we're going to be talking about
bar graphs.
Okay?
So, first of all:
What is a bar graph?
Well, so I have here three different
types of charts or graphs.
We have this one, this
one, and this one.
This is called a pie chart.
Okay?
I've covered this in another video, so if
you're interested in learning how to write
about pie charts, you can
check out that video.
But you'll notice with a pie chart it
looks kind of like a pizza or a pie.
It's in a circle and it's...
Has different colours
representing different percents.
We have here, this is
called a line graph.
So you'll notice that there's a line and,
you know, sometimes this represents time,
sometimes it represents other things, but with
a line graph you'll notice, like, increases
and decreases, but it's
one connected line.
We're not covering either
of these in this video.
What we're going to be covering is another
thing you might see on the IELTS, which is
you might be given a
picture like this.
This is called a bar
graph or a bar chart.
So we have here these rectangular-shaped
things that are each a different colour.
These are known as bars. Okay?
So, I know a bar is a place you go to buy
beer, but in this case a bar is not that,
it's actually this kind of
rectangle on the chart.
So, on the IELTS you may get a
picture of something like this.
You might actually get a picture of two things
together, or you might get a picture of something
a lot more complicated
than this.
In this case we're going to talk about: What
would you do and say, and what are some tips
if you get a picture of a
bar graph or a bar chart?
Okay, so what are you
going to have to do?
Specifically they're
going to ask you...
After you get a picture like this, they're
going to ask you to describe what you see.
Okay? So you're describing
the main information.
You're also going to have to maybe make comparisons,
say how things are similar or how things are
different, which is contrast.
So, for example, if this is, you know, different
activities, maybe you might say that the red
is shopping and the
blue is golfing.
In this case, shopping is less
popular than golfing. Okay?
So pretty much you need to compare the different
bars and say: What are the same about them?
Which ones are similar and
which ones are different?
You're also going to have to report
any main features or trends.
Okay?
So maybe you'll see a pattern and you're going
to have to write about, you know, some of
these main points you see when
you look at the visualization.
You do not write your opinion.
Okay? So if this is a graph on education, maybe
this is elementary school, secondary school,
university, master's, and like a doctorate or
something - you do not write what you think
about it. Okay?
All you do is in this type of question you're
just writing what you see and what it means.
You're not writing your
opinion on anything.
So you should not write the words: "I think"
or "In my opinion", you'll actually lose marks
for this.
So in task 1, no opinion;
that's for task 2.
Okay, so for something like this, and we will
look at an example question, you have about
20 minutes.
You know, you're responsible for your timing,
but something like this should take you about
20 minutes and you need to
write at least 150 words.
If you write less,
you lose marks.
So it's very important to
write at least 150 words.
There is such a thing as too many words, so
you don't have to write 800, that would be
very bad.
You know, writing 500
would be very bad.
You're aiming for
around 150 words.
You know, maybe 170 is fine, but you
don't want to write way too much either.
Okay, so now we're going to look at an example
of a question for this and some more tips
on how to...
How to write when you
look at a bar graph.
Okay, so I have here an
example of an IELTS question.
So, here's the chart and
here is the question itself.
It says: "The chart shows information about
changes in the average housing prices
in three different cities
between 1990 and 2000.
Summarize the information by selecting
and reporting the main features
and making comparisons
where relevant."
So, for a question like this you will again
have about 20 minutes, and you'll also have...
You have to write
about 150 words.
So, what do a lot of students
do when they see this?
They go: "Oh my gosh. I... I
don't know what to do. I panic."
Right? A lot of students get really stressed
out, but this is something you can do.
So, the number one thing you need to do is
take a breath, first thing, and then think
about: What are you seeing?
Don't just start writing.
Think about: What can
you actually see?
What is happening here?
Okay?
So, for example, here
we have on this side...
This is called the Y axis.
We have the percentage of
change in housing prices.
Okay, so I see here the word "percent" and
I see the numbers 10, 5, -5, and -10.
So this is showing percent.
Okay?
And what kind of
percent is it showing?
Housing prices, so the
cost of buying a house.
How has it changed over time?
And then I can also
look here and here.
Okay, so we're looking at the year
1990 and we're comparing it to 2000.
Usually the graph would
also have a title.
I didn't have enough space to write the title, but
in terms of the visual you might see something
like this.
There are different
types of bar graphs.
So sometimes you'll just have, you know, maybe
one part of it, sometimes you'll have multiple
bar graphs you need to interpret, sometimes
you'll have a pie graph and a bar graph, so
key here is take your time to really
think about what you're seeing.
So in this case we have three different colours:
blue, green, and red; and we have three different
cities: Toronto,
Montreal, and Vancouver.
So, I made up this, by the way.
This is not actually reflective of
housing prices in these cities.
I have no idea what housing prices are right
now, so you know, don't take this as fact
because it's made up numbers.
So when you look at this,
what can we see right away?
Well, we can find Toronto.
This is Toronto in 1990 and
this is Toronto in 2000.
Okay?
If I look here this is about
5% and here it's 10%.
I can also look at Montreal.
Montreal here is
in the negatives.
It's -5%, compared to here in 2000 which
is 5%, so it's a positive number.
And then we can look at red which represents
Vancouver, this is the same as Toronto, it's
5%, and this is, again,
the same as Toronto, 5%.
So, you can start by asking
yourself some questions.
Okay?
What are you looking at?
You can look at the bars and think
about: Which is the tallest bar?
So in this case the tallest bar in
1990 are both Toronto and Vancouver.
In 2000, the tallest bars are
also Toronto and Vancouver.
You can look at
the shortest bar.
Well, in this case, in terms
of negative, we see Montreal.
Okay?
In this case, again,
it's Montreal.
So looking at which is the tallest and which
is the shortest are some questions you want
to ask yourself
right off the bat.
You also want to look
at change over time.
Okay?
You know: How is
this graph changing?
Is something increasing?
Is something decreasing?
In this case we see Toronto increased,
Montreal increased, and Vancouver increased.
Everything has
increased over time.
You also want to compare: How are these
bars the same and how are they different?
So I'll look: Okay, you know, in this
case Toronto and Vancouver are the same,
Montreal is different.
Toronto and Vancouver have both
increased, Montreal has decreased.
In this case all three have increased,
but Toronto and Vancouver are greater.
You know, they show greater
increase than Montreal.
So noticing these types of patterns and just
really analyzing: "What are you seeing?" will
really help you in
terms of your answer.
So key point here:
Don't just write.
Take a minute to actually
understand what you are looking at.
Okay, now let's look at some
other tips on how to do...
How to analyze a bar graph.
Okay, so you've now understood
what you're looking at.
You've read the question carefully and you've
also looked at the visual, in this case, a
bar graph.
So what do you do next?
Well, it's a good idea to have a
plan on how to do these questions.
So, for example, what I would recommend
is first write an introduction.
Your introduction should
not be long. Okay?
A lot of students, they start the introduction
and then they run out of time because they
spent too much time
on the introduction.
For this, you only really need to write
maybe two sentences for your introduction.
What your sentences should say in your introduction
is it should pretty much say all of this,
so you need to talk about
what kind of chart it is.
In this case it's a bar chart or a bar graph, and
you can pretty much say all of this information.
Now here's the tricky thing: You
can't just copy what you see here.
Okay? So in your answer, your
answer should not be, you know:
"The chart shows information about
changes in the average housing prices
in three different cities
between 1990 and 2000."
If you copy the question
you will lose marks.
Okay? It does not show what you're capable of,
so do not copy the words in the question.
You need to use your own words to say all of
this information, but use your own words.
Okay? So one way to do
this: Instead of saying...
If they say: "chart" here, you
can change that to "bar graph".
Okay?
Instead of using the word "show", maybe you
can use the word "demonstrate" or "indicate"
or, you know, "represents",
"illustrates".
So there's a lot of great words
you can use instead of "show".
In terms of the three different cities,
you can actually name the cities.
In this case we looked at
Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver.
You know, you'll also have to include details
about the dates, but you can change some of
these words around.
Instead of: "average housing prices", maybe you
could change that to: "the price of housing".
You know, so there's
different things you can do.
The main point here is change the wording and
change the sentence structure if you can.
So that's key in
your introduction.
Again, you are not giving
your opinion here.
Okay?
So whether you think: "Oh, it's great that, you
know, all these Canadian cities, you know,
their housing prices
are going down",
you don't give your
opinion about it.
Okay, the next thing
you should do...
So, your introduction is, again,
about maybe two sentences.
You can now give a sentence or two
about the main trend you see.
So the main trend is the
most important or the...
The most...
You know, the thing you see that
is kind of like the biggest thing.
So in this case we looked at housing prices
of Vancouver, Toronto, and Montreal.
One thing that was a very big trend
is that everything increased.
All of the cities increased over time
in terms of their housing prices.
That's a main trend.
So anything that's a big pattern
that when you look at you notice:
"Okay, all of these things
show the same pattern"
or maybe, you know, it might
be that one of the main trends
is that Vancouver is the most expensive
and Montreal is the least expensive.
These types of things are things
that you can write about overall.
So in terms of when you're talking about
main trends, there's two great words to use.
"Overall" or, and I'll just
put that here, "In general".
So these are two great words that can start
off this sentence where you can show off what
is the big picture
or the main idea.
Okay, and that should be maybe,
you know, two sentences.
After you finish the main trend, then
you're going to have a new paragraph.
And in this new paragraph is where
you're going to say most of the details.
Okay?
So you're going to say
specific numbers.
You're going to, you know, really do
comparing and contrasting between them.
Toronto is like this, Vancouver is like this,
Montreal is like this, and you're going to
look at each thing individually
and, you know, together.
So in this case the
key here is detail.
Okay? So you want to have as much specifics and
detail as possible, and you're pretty much
summarizing what you see, but paying attention
to specific numbers and specific details.
A good tip with this...
So this is where the majority, your
biggest paragraph is going to be here.
You can introdu-...
You can use your introduction and the main
trend as one paragraph if you want or two,
but your biggest paragraph is going
to be the detailed description. Okay?
This should be, you know, maybe five, six
sentences so it should be a lot longer,
maybe even more.
In this case what you want to do is you want
to write the most important and talk about
it, or the biggest trend you see, and then
go smaller to something that maybe isn't so
important.
So you're paying attention to the most important
information, and then you're going to the
least important information,
but you're including it all.
And finally, you can
write a conclusion.
It's not necessary, but it does
wrap up your answer quite nicely.
And your conclusion can just be one sentence
just explaining, you know, what you saw in
one sentence.
So this is a good plan
on how to write...
How to write when you're
describing a bar graph.
All right, so now let's look at some more
tips on how to do this type of answer.
Okay, so one way to deal with, you know, you're
going to be very nervous probably or maybe
a bit anxious while you're writing the IELTS,
one way to deal with this with the writing
is to actually have some phrases
memorized that you're used to using.
This can help you save time, and as well this
can help you with the word count on the IELTS
because you need at
least 150 words.
So, I have here
some key phrases.
You don't have to memorize all of them, but
maybe pick one or two and you can use this
on the IELTS, practice these, and you know,
they can really help with your describing
of a bar chart or a bar graph.
So, for example: "It
is clear that..."
If we looked at the example we were just using:
It is clear that Vancouver has had the greatest
increase in average
housing prices.
It is clear that Montreal has, you
know, increased a little bit.
Okay?
So pretty much you can use this as the beginning
of your sentence to talk about some of the
patterns you're seeing.
What's even better than this is the next
one: "It is clearly evident that..."
Why is this better to use?
Well, for the simple reason of it's longer
and you need to, you know, have 150 words.
Right?
So each word you use counts.
So let's count: one, two, three, four;
versus one, two, three, four, five.
So you're getting an
extra word in there.
We can also use the next one: "We
can see from the chart that..."
Or: "We can see from
the bar graph that..."
Again, you just insert the information,
whatever it is that you're looking at.
You know, this is a way to
introduce what you're seeing.
You can also say: "According to the bar
chart..." or "According to the bar graph..."
So these are great expressions you can use
which will really help you save time thinking
about how to start a sentence.
But, you know, here's a bit of caution: Don't
reuse the same one again and again and again.
You don't want to use this for
each sentence you're writing.
Okay? So it's good to know these, but use a couple
of them and don't use them for each sentence
because you don't want it to
have too much repetition.
Okay, another thing that will help you in terms
of bar charts or bar graphs is your vocabulary.
It's very important that you have, you know,
a high level of vocabulary for the IELTS.
You want to show that you know multiple words
that have the same meaning, but that the words
are different.
So I'll give you an example.
One thing we just talked about was housing
prices and how there's been an increase.
So I could say: "Toronto's housing prices
have increased", and, you know, I'd probably
give the amount at 5%.
Now, this is great, but one problem students
have is they keep using the same word again
and again and again, and so they don't
get as high a score on their vocabulary.
So we could add something to this to make it,
you know, a bit more special or a bit better.
You know, maybe we
could add an adverb.
We have words like:
"dramatically", or "steadily".
So there's different things...
"Slightly", which means
just a little bit.
So we can add an adverb here to
describe: What kind of increase was it?
Was it a big increase
or a small increase?
We can also use
"increase" as a noun.
In this case it's a verb, but we can
change this so it's in the noun form now.
"There has been an increase
in Toronto's housing prices."
Or we can use a different
word altogether.
"There has been a rise", "a
rise" is a synonym of increase.
They have the same meaning,
but they're different words.
So finding synonyms
that, you know...
You'll often have to talk about
increases and decreases, so finding...
And staying steady.
So finding ways to, you know, to say these
words but to have multiple words that mean
the same thing, synonyms of these words is
really, really a good idea in order to improve
your vocabulary mark on
your writing for the IELTS.
Okay, so let's look at some
more tips on how to improve.
Okay, so I have two more tips on how to really
help you with looking and analyzing bar charts
or bar graphs.
One of them is knowing
your grammar.
You get marked on the IELTS for how well
you're able to write in terms of your grammar.
So, on this task when you're looking at bar charts
you're often asked to compare different things.
So in the case that we looked at before you had
to compare Vancouver to Toronto to Montreal,
but you might be comparing
different things.
Maybe you're comparing, you know,
hobbies of men to hobbies of women.
Or maybe you're looking at different ages and,
you know, levels of schooling or something
like that.
So you'll probably have to compare
and contrast different things.
So one thing you should know is how to make
superlative sentences and comparative sentences.
So as a reminder, superlatives is when you're
comparing three things or more, you could
be comparing three, four, five,
six, 10, you use the superlative.
And what you're doing is you're saying out
of those three things, which is the highest?
Which is the lowest?
Which is the greatest?
Pretty much you can
do it with anything.
For example, if you're looking at
mountains, a superlative would be:
Mount Everest is the tallest
mountain in the world.
So superlatives have this ending, "est"
and it also has "the" in front of it.
Okay?
So what we were talking about with housing
prices, Vancouver has the highest housing
prices, as an example.
You also have here "the
least" and "the most".
These are also superlatives.
Then we have these things
called comparatives.
We use comparatives when
we're comparing two things.
So superlatives, this, is for three or more;
comparatives are when you're just comparing
two different things.
So, for example, if we wanted to compare
Montreal and Toronto, we could say:
"Toronto has a higher
population than Montreal."
Or, you know, with
housing prices:
"Montreal had a smaller
increase than Toronto."
Okay?
So the key here is you have
"er" and you also have "than".
So these are comparatives.
Another thing that you can really do to help
your mark on the IELTS and your vocabulary
is using different transition
words for compare and contrast.
Compare is where you're saying how
things are the same or similar.
Contrast is when you're saying
how things are different.
So on the IELTS Task 1 you're going to have
to say how things are similar and how things
are different.
So, in terms of contrast we have some
great examples of expressions here.
You can use the words:
"In contrast,".
So, for example:
"Vancouver has very high housing prices. In
contrast, Montreal has low housing prices."
You can use the words: "On the contrary,"
in the same way as "In contrast,".
You can also use the verb
form of "different".
A lot of students don't know about this word,
but I think it's great whenever you're doing
comparisons.
"Differ" is a verb and it
means to be different from.
So, for example: Toronto
differs from Vancouver.
Montreal differs from Toronto.
It just means that
there's a difference.
Notice also the preposition
that comes after "differs".
We say: "differs
from" something.
If I wanted to talk about apples and
oranges: Apples differ from oranges.
Okay?
So very good vocabulary
here to use.
We also have words for when we're talking about
how things are similar, when we're comparing
things.
So we have the word "both".
Both Toronto and Vancouver
are great cities.
Toronto and Montreal-sorry-are
alike in many ways.
They are similar.
Toronto has had an increase in housing prices,
similarly, Vancouver has had an increase.
Okay?
So using these types of words can really help
you in your mark in terms of your vocabulary
and organization.
So, we've covered a lot today and you
might be asking questions, like:
"Oh my god, comparatives and superlatives,
ugh, I don't remember any of that."
Or you might be confused by it.
Similarly, with comparing contrast you might
think: "Well, how do I use this in a sentence?"
Those are all very
good questions,
and I wanted to tell you that we have a lot
of resources that can help you with that.
So earlier in the video I talked about how you
want to change the question into your own words.
We have a video on how to
do that about paraphrasing.
When I talked about superlatives and comparatives,
we have a video on that, on what they are
and: How do we...?
How do we write them?
How do we do them correctly?
Compare and contrast, we have a great video on
some expressions we can use when we compare
and some expressions we
use when we contrast.
So these extra videos are
really good for this task,
so I highly recommend watching them and
really understanding how these things work.
So we've covered a lot today, and there's a
lot more that you can study, so invite you
to check out our
website at www...
Ugh, sorry.
www.engvid.com.
There, you can actually find more resources
on all sorts of different things from IELTS
to pronunciation, to vocabulary, all sorts
of great videos, and you can also try our
quiz on bar graphs which can really help
you practice everything you learned today.
So I hope you subscribe to my channel
and I hope you keep watching.
Until next time, thanks for
watching and take care.
BAM!!! Mr. Tarrou
If you are looking for a video of how to graph sine and cosine functions with all your changes in
amplitude, phase shift, and vertical shifts, this is not the video you want to watch.
I just want to tie..that will be the next video I post... I just want to tie in how you get the numbers off the unit circle and how that translated into a graph on the x y axis
So we have a unit circle drawn out.  Handy dandy.  My students are getting drilled constantly about these unit circles.
The cosine of theta is x over r and sine of theta is y over r.
Since this is a unit circle, all the x coordinates therefore are cosine and all the y coordinates around this unit circle are sine values.
Now, we are going to graph sine and cosine hopefully in the next 15 minutes.
Just basic trig functions.  No transformations.
off the values we get from this unit circle.  When we graph these trig functions plotting that many points we are going to need the help of our calculator.
I went ahead and calculated the value of the square root of 3 over 2 and got .87
Now after this lesson I will show you how I am going to teach my own students how to graph trig functions, they are not going to be allowed to use calculators, so something is going to need to change from plotting all these points.
So we have y equals the sine of x.  We are going to try and see what that looks graphically.
Now I am going to say y over here, but on a unit circle, which is on the x y axis...this is the origin, the x coordinates are cosine and the y's are sine.
But, what you do as a graph of Sine and Cosine is you track the values of sine, or cosine, or tangent...whatever you are doing... but we are only doing sine and cosine today, we track the change in those values over the x axis.
...almost like over time.  As we rotate what do those actual values become.
Don't forget what do you put into a trig function?
You put in an angle measure and I am going to do all my angles in radians.
So, the x axis is actually the values of theta.  The x axis is the domain and we plug in angle measures
to find, at least as far as trig functions are concerned, the ratio of the sides of a right triangle.  In terms of Sine this is y over r.
Lets see if we can't plot a bunch of points and see what these basic sine and cosine functions look like.
Zero degrees.  The sine of 0 degrees, the x axis being the domain of theta, the sine of 0 degrees is 0.
So, we have the sin(0) equals 0.
At pi/6 we have got this vertical distance because sine is y over r.
So when you rotate pi/6 radians, the y value is 1/2 and I don't need a calculator for that.  So at pi/6 the sine value is 1/2.
At lets say pi/3,
Well if you rotate pi/3 radians, the y value is or the sine value is square root of 3 over 2 which we know is .87...or at least I did after I used my calculator.
So at pi/3 we are at almost .9.  I am basically in the middle, I am doing more than just a sketch but I am using chalk and chalk board so .87 or .9 you cannot tell the difference visually.
At pi over 2.  Let's pick a different color here.  At pi/2, at 90 degrees, the y value is what?
When you rotate pi/2 radians, the y value ... the y coordinate is 1.  So BOOM, there we go.
If there has been no transformations like if there is no amplitude change which I will speak about in the next video, the highest value you ever get is one
because the y value and the radius is the same.  This is because you are moving perfectly vertically, up and down... perfectly vertically:/
Anyway the radius is 1, the y value is 1 thus you get the largest value sine can take on without an amplitude change.
Now as we rotate back over here to 2pi over 3, we are starting to come back down the circle so the y values are going to start to reduce or get smaller.
So, the sine of 2 pi over 3 is once again square root of 3 over 2, or basically .9.
Now why again does pi/3 and 2pi/3 have the same basic coordinates except for a sign change?
Because they both have the same reference angle of pi/3 radians, or in degrees 60 degrees.
You might notice also that I skipped over pi/4.
When you count or set up an x axis, or any axis on a graph, you cannot change by what you count.
So I can't count by 30 degrees then by 15 and 15 and then 30 again.
You can see I already have a crowded x-axis and I certainly do not want to count by half or 15 degrees which would be pi/12.
I am just going to count by 30's or pi/6 as we go around the unit circle since that is how I set up my x axis which is representing theta, the domain value.
As we come back over here to 5pi/6, the y value is again 1/2.
At pi the sine value is 0.
Now these values are going to seem to be repeating, but they are all going to be negative because we are falling below the x axis which means your y values are going to be negative of course.
At 7pi/6 we get -1/2.
At 3pi/4 we get negative square root of 3 over 2 which is basically negative .9 or -.87.
At 3pi/2 we are once again down at the bottom where we have a quadrantal angle.
We did a quadrantal angle and the sine value, the y value down there, at 3 pi/2 the sine of 3pi/2 is -1
That is going to be the lowest value that sine can take on unless there is a stretch, unless there is an amplitude change, because the y value and the radius are equal.
So we get -1
Coming into quadrant 4 our y values start to rise again.
So we have -.87 and then -1/2 and then we are finally back to 0.
So my sine graph looks like this.
Now, if I keep the pattern going on, hopefully you catch on to that and if not just ask me a question.
I didn't hear any:)
Again 30 degrees and I am going to highlight those angles that have the same reference angles so they all have similar coordinates.
If I keep this pattern up, we have all the colors so I can speed this up, one tick over and I am at -.5 instead of .5.  One tick over and now I am at -9.
Another tick over and I am at negative one.
Now I am going back up to -.87
Another tick over and we are at -.5.
And then at 0 again.
Another tick over and I am at uhh
Let me see, going back to zero and now a tick to the left I am at .5
And now at .9 essentially, 1, now .87, .5, and at finally at 0.
Now if I connect all these dots I get that picture.
By the way, these are negative angle rotations ...
negative...I didn't put all the negative values, I skipped some labels.
Negative pi/6 gives -.5
-pi/3 is -.87
-pi/2.  Now this says 3pi/2 but those are coterminal angles.  -pi/2 radians gives -1
Look what we have, we have a nice smooth wave.
This could be a sound wave, or wave in the ocean,
electrical waves, light waves, it is a sine graph.
And you might notice that with this graph, you can rotate it 180 degrees and it will be a perfect match.
It would line up exactly.
If you can take a graph and rotate it 180 degrees, that means that this is an odd function.
Lets take a look if we have time at Cosine.
I am going to do this a lot quicker, so I hope you understood the previous example.
Cosine  Well y equals cosine of x.
We are still going to plug in angle measures
but when we evaluate cosine
we are not looking for the y values around the circle we're looking for the x values around the circle.
So the cosine of 0 degrees is 1
Lets use a completely different color.
Not sure if the yellow and the white are going to highlight that much of a difference.
So the cosine(0) is 1 and the cosine(pi/6) is square root of 3 over 2.  We heard that number before!
Square 3 over 2 is .87, so (pi/6,.87)
The cosine(pi/3) is 1/2.
At pi/2 our cosine is 0.
At 2pi/3, the cosine of 2pi/3 is 1/2.
Hopefully as I draw this you can see the pattern showing up on our graph.
At 5pi/6 our cosine value is negative square root of 3 over 2, or approximately -.87.
And now at pi, we are now to the farthest to the left on the circle as we will get.
The x value will be the smallest or most negative it will get, and that is -1
And the radius is 1, so the cosine of pi is negative 1.
Ok, if I can stop pointing to the unit circle...well I will finish it up.
Then we start in quadrant 3 and 4
having the x values become larger or more positive.
So, at 7pi/6 we are at negative square root of 3 over 2.
or basically -.87
At 4pi/3, 1...2...3...4pi/3, the cosine is -1/2
At 3pi/2 our x value is 0.
At 5pi/3 we are 1/2.
And then finally we are back at .87
...and then at 1.
If I keep that pattern going on the other side.  Lets see the graph so far.
Here is y equals the cosine of x.
I probably should have that in blue and not yellow.
Now if I keep that pattern up: 1, .87, .5, 0,
negative point 5, -.87, -1
I am going this way now, you can see my negative angles wrapping clockwise around the unit circle.
- 7pi/6 we are at negative square root of 3 over 2.
then at -.5...0...positive 1/2...positive .87
and now at 1.
So again, -pi/6 positive square root 3 over 2
Negative pi/3 positive 1/2
-pi/2, 0
-2p/3 we are at -1/2
Starting to see the connection between the unit circle and the graph I hope.
So we get this graph.
That is y equals the cosine of x.
Now do you see the symmetry that we have on the y axis?
If you have a graph that is symmetric to the y axis, that means that it is an even function.
That might come in handy with problems we will do later in Trig.
So, this is how we track rotation along the x axis.
and pull those numbers off the unit circle.
Now in the next lesson you are going to see me...
We don't want to plot this many points.
We want to make this as quick and easy as possible and with my students am not going to allow them to use a calculator.
What I am going to show them to do, and you on the video
is show you how to just find the easy values of 0, 1, 0, -1, and 0 again.
We are in the next lesson key in on just those easy points.
When you are finding sine and cosine values of 1, 0, and -1, now we are just talking about the quadrantal angles.
We will talk about a system to set up t-tables that will only allow us to get these quadrantal angles.
Thus will do these graphs without the aid of a calculator and without plotting so many flipping points!!!
WOOOO!!!  I am Mr. Tarrou, go do your homework:D
hi I'm Julia I'm a math teacher and I'm
going to show you how to plot on graph
paper so we don't have graph paper in
front of us but I can draw Cartesian
coordinates through we have our y axis
and our x axis and if you have graph
paper it's very easy to mark on your y
axis and on your x axis the different
values so this is I added tick marks
because it on a graph paper this is one
we're going up by one and this is one
now often you're given what is called a
coordinate pair that looks like this
let's say we have one five this is
called a coordinate pair it denotes a
point that you will find on your graph
the formal coordinate pair is X Y
meaning this number here is the zero is
on the the X this number here shows how
high you are on the y axis so let's go
to this example my 1 tells me I'm out by
1 on the x axis so I start at the origin
here and I go over 1 and this 5 tells me
that I go up on the y axis up to 5 and
there it is that is your point plotted
on graph paper invisible graph paper
anyway thank you
imagine that you take out a piece of
paper and you start to draw a graph now
maybe the graph you draw looks something
like this you'll notice that two of the
edges cross over each other and we call
that an edge crossing but you could draw
the exact same graph in a different way
with no edge crossings so we'll do that
in red now both of these graphs are the
complete graph on four vertices that's K
for the red picture tells us that k4 can
be drawn with no edges crossing this
leads us to two important definitions a
planar graph is a graph which can be
drawn in the plane without any edge
crossings and a plane graph is a planar
graph which has been drawn in the plane
with no edge crossings so in our example
we know that k4 is a planar graph but
only the red picture is a plane graph
now a plane graph can divide the plane
into regions so let's take a look at our
example again we have the drawing of k4
which is a plane drawing and we can
label our regions r1 r2 r3 and don't
forget our for the region that goes
outside of the whole graph notice that
r1 r2 and r3 are bounded they're
contained but r4 is an unbounded region
in fact every plane graph has an
unbounded region which is called the
exterior region let's look at some more
examples so if we draw the triangle we
can see that it just divides the plane
into two regions the one inside the
triangle and the one outside if we draw
another graph say a tree on some number
of vertices we can see that it's easily
drawn in the plane and it also just has
one region which is the unbounded region
it's actually pretty straightforward to
prove that every tree can be drawn as a
plane graph and has only one region
which is the unbounded region the
boundary of a region in a plane graph is
the set of vertices and edges that
outline it so if we take a look at this
sample graph which is a plane graph and
this example graph which is also a plane
graph we can label the regions r1 r2 and
r3 and we see that although the graphs
are isomorphic these are different plane
graphs they have different boundaries
for example if you were to find the
boundary of r2 it would contain only
that triangle in the first picture
whereas the boundary of r2 in the other
picture looks different so keep in mind
that even though these graphs are
clearly the same in the sense that they
are isomorphic they could be drawn in
different ways in terms of a plane
drawing let's look at another example
I'll start by drawing three blue
vertices and then three red vertices the
question is can you connect every blue
vertex to every red vertex so that no
edges cross you may recall that this
graph is called a complete bipartite
graph in particular this graph is K 3 3
and it turns out that K 3 3 is not
planar so the takeaway is that not every
graph can be drawn in a plane way now
let's see why it is that K 3 3 is not
planar we're going to just talk through
an informal proof first we notice that K
3 3 has a Hamilton cycle so I'm going to
start by redrawing the 6 vertices and
I'm just going to draw the edges of a
Hamilton cycle so let's just draw those
and I notice that I had some crossing of
edges right there but what I can do is
redraw that cycle so that it doesn't
have any crossings so let's do that we
notice that we still have red and blue
vertices which are scattered around and
we now have our Hamilton cycle without
any crossing ok but we're kind of
missing 3 edges because in the original
graph every blue vertex is connected to
every red vertex that means if you take
a look at a blue vertex in the Hamilton
cycle it needs to have an edge to go to
every red vertex and right now it's
missing one of those each blue vertex is
missing an edge to a red vertex that
means that we have three more edges to
go in and they are the diagonal edges in
this Hamilton cycle now let's see what
happens if we put in one of those
okay we're fine so far but now if we try
to put in another one
we can't go across the middle of the
Hamilton cycle without hitting the edge
we just put so we have to go around the
outside of the Hamilton cycle and now
we're still fine no crossings but we
have one remaining edge let's see what
we can do with it if we try to go across
the middle of the Hamilton cycle we get
stuck we hit the other one so we can't
do that
if we try to go around the outside of
the Hamilton cycle we again hit an edge
so we're going to get stuck what we're
really saying here is that by the
pigeonhole principle we have three edges
going into two zones and there will be
two edges in one of those zones in other
words there will be two edges which
either go through the middle of the
Hamilton cycle or through the outside of
the Hamilton cycle and in either of
those cases they're going across so we
will always end up with an edge crossing
and that's what tells us that k33 is not
planar so this should give you a sense
for why this graph is not planar will
actually see a more formal proof by
contradiction later on in a future video
in case you're not familiar with the
pigeonhole principle check out this fun
video about the pigeonhole principle now
this video was an introduction to the
idea of planar graphs we're going to
talk a lot more about planar graphs in
future videos in much more detail
check out related videos on this side
and I'll see you next time
parabola parabola for some reason I
really want to graph a parabola right
now you see that perfect
all right the coordinate plane is done
now all we need is an equation
let's graph y is x squared plus 2x plus
1 now all of these quadratic equations
should be in standard form that is y
equals ax squared plus BX plus C where
the exes are exes and the a B and C are
real numbers first step find a B and C
ok so from looking at our equation we
can see the coefficient of the x squared
is 1 it's not written but we know we
have 1 x squared so a is 1 B is the
coefficient of x which is 2 in this case
and C is the constant the number by
itself at the end in this case C is 1
first step done
next we need to find the axis of
symmetry the axis of symmetry is the
invisible line that separates two
identical or symmetrical sites the
formula to find the axis of symmetry is
x equals negative b over two egg alright
so for step two i'm going to write it
again x equals negative b over 2a all
right this is our axis of symmetry don't
forget it
think of the axis of symmetry as a
mirror projecting the same image on the
other side
all right so negative now B is 2 so
we're going to write negative 2 divided
by 2 that 2 times a which is 1 all right
perfect
now we're going to simplify this
negative 2 divided by 2 times 1 equals 2
and this is going to equal negative 1 so
our axis of symmetry is at negative 1 on
the x axis
step three we're going to make a table
and find our vertex our starting point
so here we go here's our table X and one
column Y in the other column so our
first x that we're going to plug in is
our axis of symmetry which is negative
one and we're going to plug that back
into the original equation so wherever
we see X we're going to write negative
one so negative one squared plus two
times negative one plus one all right
now negative 1 times negative 1 is 1
minus 2 plus 1 which is 0 yeah that's
our vertex so now we're going to plot
that point negative 1 0 right there now
we're going to pick two more points
these need to be to one side of this X
so 0 that's an easy point so we're going
to go back to our equation y equals 0
squared plus 2 times 0 plus 1 what is
that equal 0 plus 0 plus 1 so that's
another point on our graph 0 comma 1 so
we're just going to go 0 on the x axis 1
on the y axis and the next point we pick
should be 1 or making it easy on
ourselves back to the original equation
1 squared plus 2 times 1 plus
one now that's going to equal one plus
two plus one which is four
excellent you knew that in you boy
alright so we're going to go write one
up for make our mark there and now the
last step is that we're going to use the
axis of symmetry to finish our parabola
all right so here's our axis of symmetry
and we're going to make everything on
the left the same so it's on the right
just like this leaf of that as an axis
of symmetry our graph has an axis of
symmetry one of our points is to the
right one up one from our vertex so
we're going to go to the left one from
our vertex up one we're going to make
them work so it's the same exact moves
except for instead of right here right
to up four we're going to go left two up
four from our vertex don't forget that
you're going from the vertex now not
from the origin of the graph so we're
going to make our mark right there
and now we're just going to connect all
of our dots together to give us our
parabola done yes perfect parabola
all right y'all here's a recap of the
steps you need to successfully solve a
quadratic equation by graphing make sure
you've written them down so that you can
dominate any tests crush any quizzes and
feel confident in conquering any
homework that might come your way that
will come your way rather for me it's
time for another nap for you it's time
to graph
practice
Hello friends my name is Tushar and
today I'm going to talk about how to
find the cycle in an undirected graph. So
here I have a graph and this graph
contains a cycle so this graph should
say that yes I contain a cycle.
If I remove this edge here then this
graph doesn't contain a cycle anymore so
it should say that I do not contain a
cycle. So there are many ways to find a
cycle in an undirected graphs like using
disjont sets,using DFS,using topological
sort and a few other ways.In today's
video I'm going to talk about couple of
these techniques. One is using disjoint
sets,another is using DFS to find a
cycle in an undirected graph.Let's first
talk about how to find a cycle in an
undirected graph using disjoint sets. In
another video I talked about how disjoint
sets work and if you have not watched that
video ,I highly recommend
you watching that video before
continuing on this video.So if you
remember disjoint set supports 3
operation makeSet,
union and findSet. Let's see how we're
going to use this disjoint to find a
cycle in an undirected graph. So the idea
is very simple. All you have to do is
create as many sets as,as the number of
vertices you have and then you have to
pick an edge and you have to see both
the ends, both the vertices of this edge
are in the same set or in different set.
If they're in a different set then you
have to union those two sets together
and if they're in the same set
it means that there is another edge
which unioned them together so this
edge must be creating a cycle in the
graph. So let's work with this example.
So first I do is I call makeSet on
all this 6 vertices.
So I have A,B,C,F,E,D.
So here I have 6,I have 6 sets so then
I pick any edge. So let's say I picked this
edge.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
do a findSet on A that is going to
return me A and then I'm going to call,
do a findSet
on F and that is going to return me F.
At this point both A and F are not in the
same set it means that adding this edge
is not going to create a cycle then what
we do is we do a union of these two
sets.
So then they are together now so we'll
have A,F and a union.
So they are now in the same set and let's
say the set is represented by A. Now
let's pick another edge.
So let's say we picked edge ED.Again we
do a findSet on E that returns me E
and then I do a findSet on D and that
returns me D and again they are in the
different sets so again adding this edge
is not going to create a cycle. So let's
first do and then let's do a union of
these two sets.
All right let's pick another edge.
Let's say we picked edge CD. So we do a
findSet on
D.Let's, let's say this set is
represented by E.
So I do a findSet on D so that returns
me E
and then do a findSet on C and that
returns me C.
So again this set and this set is
different.Again,
so adding this edge is not going to
create a cycle,so let's union them,
so something like this and again we
say that E represents this entire set.
So next let's pick this edge.
A is represented by A and B is
represented by B.Again they are in two
different sets.
So adding this is not going to create a
cycle. Let's Union these two sets.
All right let's add edge BE.So B is
represented by A so findSet on B
will return A and findSet on E returns E.So
A and E are in two different sets right
now. So,so again this edge is not
going to create a cycle.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to do a union of these two sets so we'll
have something like this and let's say
E represents
my entire set.
So finally let's add this edge BC.
So what will happen is B is represented
by E, when we do a findSet on B
we get E, when we, when we do a findSet on C
we again get E. What that means is that
both these guys are already in the same
set.
It means that there must be another way
to connect B to C and that edge is not
this edge. So by adding this edge it
means that you're going to create a
cycle in the graph so this edge here
creates a cycle in the graph and that's
how we find out that there is a cycle in
the graph using disjoint sets. In the
next section let's talk about how we
find cycle in undirected graph using DFS
algorithm.So in DFS we'll keep a
visited set to know which vertices we
have already visited. So we can start
from any
vertex. Let's say we start from A. So first
thing we do is we put A in the
visited set.
Then we explore the neighbors of A, let's
say we explore F first so we go in the
direction of F and we also pass A TO
F saying that I'm coming from A and
then F is going to explore its neighbors.
So the first neighbor it's going to find
is A and since it's coming from,in the
direction of A there is no reason to
continue in that way,direction and then
F has no other neighbors.
So we also visited F and then F goes
back to A and then A explores its other
neighbour which is B
and again it passes A to that neighbour.
So again first thing we do is we put B
into the visited set. Then B explores its
neighbours.
So the first neighbour it encounters is A and
since it is already coming from A
because you passed A to b it knows that
it doesn't need to go in that direction.
So then it explores another neighbour. So
let's say that neighbour was C and C is not
in the visited set. It means that it
can go in the direction of C. So we go
from B to C and we pass B to,we
pass B to C saying that this is where
you're coming from
and we'll also put C in the visited set.C
will repeat the same process. C will
explore its neighbours. So first neighbour
it sees is B and it knows that it's
already coming from B so there's no
reason to go in that direction.
So C explore its other neighbour which is
D so we go from C to D and pass C to
it and put D in the visited set. Then
D will repeat the process.
So D will not go,not go in the direction
of C so D will explore
E and we'll put E in the visited set
and then E will not go in the direction of
D.
So what E's going to do is,it's going to try
to go in the direction of B but what
happened here is that B is already in a
visited set.
What that means was there,there must
be another way to reach B from E which
is this way.
So adding this particular edge is
going to create a cycle in the graph. So
this is how we know that there is a
cycle in the,in the undirected graph.
Remember it's an undirected graph. So all
we need to do is maintain a visited set
and then we do a DFS and we pass the
parent so that you know that you don't
have to explore in that direction and
other than that if you find any
node which is already
if you find any vertex which is
already in a visited set it means
that you found a cycle in the
undirected graph. So in the next section
let's look at the
code. So let's look at the code to find
cycle in undirected graph using
disjoint sets. So I have a very simple graph
here and I'm going to run this,run
through this code using this graph as an
example.
So first thing we do is we create an
object of disjoint set. Then I iterate
through all the vertices of this graph and
create that many sets. So I end up
creating like 4 sets A,B,C,D. Then I
pick one edge at a time. So let's say
we picked an edge AC. So I find the
representative of A,edge
1 vertex of this edge and that is
A and then I find the representative 2
of the other vertices of this edge and
that's C.
So A and C are not same. So what we do is
we union A and C. So A and C are now together and
let's say they are represented by A.Then
we go back to the top of this for loop.
Let's take another edge,say BC.
So what we do is we find the
representative
Let's say v1 is B so we find
representative of B and that's B and
we find representative of C and
that's A. So again A and B are different.
So we don't go into this if condition,
we come here and we union these two guys
together.
Let's say A continues to be the
representative of this set.
Let's pick another edge, say CD. So we go
back to the top of the for,for loop,we
pick edge CD,we find the representative of
C, that's A and then we find the
representative 2 of D and that's D.Again
we don't go into this if condition so we
union this set and this set. So we end up
having something like this.
Now we go back to our top of the for
loop and find edge AB.
So we find representative of A and
that's A and then we find
representative of B and that's also A.
So in this case representive1 is
equal to representative2.
So what we do is we instantly return true
saying that there is a cycle in this
graph. So basically this, adding this edge
is going to create a cycle in this graph.
Let's analyze space and time
complexity. So space complexity is pretty
simple.
It's the total number of vertices so that
is O(V).
Let's analyze time complexity.
So this for loop here is going to take
O(V) time.
Then if you remember,if you remember
from disjoint sets,if the total number
of operations are 'm' and if the total
number of elements in the disjoint
sets is 'n' and if 'm' is greater than
equal to 'n' the amortized time for m
operations is going to be O(m). In
this case our total number of elements
in this set is going to be n which is
O(V) and total number of operations is
never,is also going to be equal to V
because number of edges we need to
look is at max is going to be V
because as soon as we find the Vth
edge,as soon as,if the total number of
vertices are V, as soon as we explore the
Vth,the Vth number of edge
what will happen is that edge is going to
create a cycle in this graph. So this for
loop at max executes V times and so
the total number of operations is going
to be,since you are doing findSet multiple times
and union 1 so the total number of
operations is going to be three 3m. So
in the worst case the time complexity
for this algorithm is going to be
O(V).
The time complexity for DFS
algorithm is also going to be O(V) where
V is the number of vertices and the space
complexity for DFS algorithm
is going to be O(V).
So this is all I have to talk about
finding cycle in an undirected graph. The
link to the code is in the description
section of the video. Please like this
video,share this video,comment on this
video,check out my github page and my
facebook page.
Thanks again for watching this video.
so transforming graphs of functions well
first of all please be clear about what
exactly is the graph of a function the
graph of a function is a picture of all
the answers to take as employment as a
simple function f of x equals x squared
just to make a little board interesting
just accessed rearranged to draw the
graph of that means to work out all the
answers for the different X's and plot
those answers as y-coordinates in other
words and that's the function then y
equals f of X would represent the graph
of the function that's going to be the
graph that's going to give you the
picture it's going to give you the graph
of the function the graph of that
function but simply B will go through
the points at 0 and so it's going to be
0 so the y coordinate will be 0 1 the
answer will still be 1 1 squared is 1 at
2 the answer is going to be 2 squared is
4 at negative 1
the answer is going to be negative 1
squared is back to positive 1 and at
negative 2 it's going to be negative 2
squared which is 4 again we'll just
stick with that so the basic problem
would be this well we'll just pretend
these are the two points here obviously
goes on beyond that what is that we're
taking just that the mean from negative
2 to 2 so this is the point 2 4 and this
is a point negative 2 4 to give a couple
more interesting points I'm just a
single telling point hey while the
various transformations you can do to a
graph or they're going to be linear
transformations are just multiplying and
adding so the transformations it could
be one of four forms
I could have y equals something times it
I could have a new graph which is the
original one plus something I could have
a new graph which is going to be the
original graph at some other position
two
multiplication first or a new graph
which is at some other position which is
going to be a shift as for different
things you could do by multiplying and
adding either Oh Seder inside by that I
mean this writing y equals f of X means
that the answer you can applaud the
volume in a plot will be f which stands
for the answer you arrive er by applying
that function water at the position X is
the answer at position whatever since a
that bracket at position X so these
different parts we mean and I'll just
rattle through them so y equals a of f
of X means I'm going to take my answer
and multiply it by e but keep my answers
at the same position X they'll just say
there so y equals to f of X means then
you're gonna have because it's not as
soon as the old one the ultimen was y
equals just f of X the new graph is
going to be have answers which are twice
the old ones that's important way to
think of it why means your new y
coordinate as like your new answer it's
going to be two times the old answer
that's what this part stands for the
part that was already about to the
original calculation it's two times the
old answer but at the same position
because it was originally got to X at
the same position so there's a thinner
I better attain what would happen to all
those parts well at 2 the answer is four
now it to that is going to be 8 so 2 4
is going to go to 2 8 8 is 2 times the
old answer the origin 0 0 is going to go
to I'll still be 0 0
same position X is the position answer
double the old one negative 2/4 is going
to go to double the answer but at the
same position double four is eight which
means you get a taller than a graph no y
equals 1/2 f of X for mean you've got
half the answer at the original position
so the odds can happen is at two instead
of having for the answer will just be a
to a negative two instead of him for is
going to be a negative two but still at
the same position X so that you'll get a
short top photograph of course normally
like an Africa when forever something
but also the extending forever and if
that was a negative two multiplying it
then what that says is your new answer
will be negative two times your old
answer that's the alt and so there is no
calculation at the original position
which is still X so the new answers will
just be negative two times the old ones
which means a set of four orbit eight
but negative eight instead of four will
be eight but negative hit I'll be upside
down looking like again an expanded
upside down graph because of that
negative then y equals f of X plus two
means the new y-coordinate will be a bit
old and so the original y-coordinate
still at the original position x but
moved up to so every point is going to
move up to all the answers will be
increased by two still at two instead of
bit up for the new answer will be a six
I said a negative two so I negative two
instead of in a for opiates X at zero I
said a bit of 0 would be a two so you
can hate the graph moved up to stop with
the same shape or if it's subtracting a
number then that simply means the same
as before the new my quarter will be the
original I'm still
same position only dropped to two off of
all of the answers instead of for ten to
two set of 4 then 2 to instead of 0 then
to negative 2 so you get the graph with
the same shape drop down to then putting
it together having this transformation
simply means my new answers will be here
are the original answers will be the
original answered doubled and three I
did such stretched by 2 and then shifted
up 3 but still at the original positions
so that I would have at to my new answer
would be 2 times 4 being the old answer
which is 8 plus 3 is 11
same here that'll be 11 and the origin
will still stay at 0 but the new answer
will be 2 zeros of 0 plus 3 is 3 so you
would get this for the new graph but
it's been strange to twice its height
and left it up 3 if it says y equals F
of 2x and what that's saying is the
original answers aren't going to be
changed there's no alteration to the
original calculation what's happened is
you're plotting up answers from a
different position
that's the original position and you're
going to move it just to X which is the
same as saying this at x equals to 0
plus purpose doing for the underneath x
equals to 0 I'm going to plot the answer
which was at x equals 2 times 0 0 so I
just is there at x equals 1 so at x
equals 1 I'm going to use the answer for
2 times 1 so I'm going to take two's
answer and move it back so it's actually
going to be up at 1/4 at 2 I'm going to
plot the answer for 2 times 2 which is 4
which means I'm going to take fours
answer which was 16 and
move all the way back it's a negative 1
a negative 1 I'm going to take the
answer for negative 2 plot a tie
negative 1 so that would be that for
shifted back which means that for this
one the whole graph is going to be
squashed up it actually does the
opposite it doesn't double as it expand
among the x-direction
it compresses notice there's no change
to the answers they also stay the same
they'll just get put into different
positions in this case they're getting
squashed or algebraically you could
think this F stands for the original
answer unchanged okay so the range of
answers will stay the same but 2x is
where you're going to find those answers
that was the original position of those
answers you could call that original
position X naught which means that 2x
was the original position so X like by
being the new positions would be 1/2 of
X naught in other words all the
x-coordinates have been half so state of
2 for doing this will give you still 4
because there's no change to F but half
of that one still for behalf of that
negative 1 and the same for y equals F
of 1/2 X if nothing's happening outside
of F F sigh complete once you do F of
something that's the answer popped out
so you've still got the same set of
answers there's no change to the answers
they're just going to move into
different positions look what's going to
happen in this case well 1/2 of X means
that the original position was 1/2 X so
the new positions going to be doubled
wherever it was and or you could think
that at one you're going to plot the
answer for 1/2 so that's the smaller
answer is going to spray
into line at to tune to the formula
you're going to plot the answer for one
so one answer is going to move out to
app for you're going to take two answers
and spread the whole thing will spread
out but you can just use that formula
there the new x coordinate is 2 times
the old x coordinate so you get this
same hates no change to the answers it's
just spread out because this says if
nothing's happening to see my so what's
happening inside well 1/2 of X means
that you're going to have double you can
always just think of it simplistically
as the inverse of what it's seeing but
of course as inverse because the guess
is all you've got to do the opposite so
it's going to be spread oh it's going
about doubling everything when you move
twice the distance away from the origin
that it used to be or F of negative 2x
no I'll be difficult to see in this case
because of a symmetric of the origin to
begin with maybe if I had the two halves
cover differently the negative 2x means
at X like a 1 I'm going to plot the
answer which used to be this is the
original position at negative 2 so I'm
going to take negative 2 times R and
move all over to 1 so 1 would be
negative 2 and sansa 0 still be the same
because that's that still comes another
at negative 1 I'm going to plot it says
the rule here is use the function or
negative 2 times each of the x's so
that'll be negative 2 times negative 1
is 2 so I'm going to take twos and so so
it's actually going to be move over the
graph would actually end up looking like
this I'll just use the y part
it's been squashed up it's not quite so
obvious because of a symmetrical
parabola but flipped over the graph
would be flipped over that's the effect
of the negative fence happening inside
the bracket so it's changing the
expositions of the answers but not
changing the answers the answers stay
the same
squash doctor half the size y equals f
of X plus two the effect of that would
be the answers will stay the same so the
house will still be the answers are
sloppy zeros and force will change to
the range that change is taking place
and the starting positions so weird it's
those answers are going to appear and
what this says is at zero if X is zero
I'm going to use the answer for two so
two times so gets moved back to zero one
I'm going to take the answer from three
so it's going to move back at two I'm
going to take the answer for four and
it's going to move back all the points
will move back one so you would consider
a two so you would get a graph moving
back to places you can just think of it
simplistically as do the opposite
vertices and side so leave your answers
alone perceptible by two or you could do
it algebraically by seeing what what
happens to the biggest player points
what happens to to four where does it go
to
well the answers aren't changed so the
answers still for those were the Y
coordinates that Y coordinates were the
answers lives in your answer well X plus
two was the original position so X plus
two was the original position 2 which
means the new position is going to be
take away 2 which is 0 so 2 4 should go
to 0 4 1 by 4 and the same for the other
ones or y equals f of X minus 2 in this
case the graph should still at the same
answers 0 some force but the positions
will be different because they're going
to be just thinking that simplistic as
that or prison of that shifted forward -
or you could work it out where with the
point 2 4 go well the answers are
staying the same so they're still going
to be
or but if that's the original position
those answers were found at this place
which was a to so the new answer will be
found out for that's just for bird for
seeing for the other ones so you get the
exact same picture will need shifted
forward to no change to the answers or
combination this case same as before no
change to the answers because nothing's
happening
after you've Canada F so with the same
range of answers but the positions are
going to be changed to find where the
new answers are going to go seems the
old answers because that's where you
hide the original positions 2x plus 3
was the original position remembers the
investors of these effects as the
inverse operation so it should be
everything moves back three and then
whatever the new position is you then
squash them all up towards the origin by
two times that becomes half the weight
I'll just do it algebraically here it's
going to be X bar minus 3 so X is going
to be 1/2 of X naught minus 3 or
splitting it half of X naught minus 1
and 1/2 so it doesn't actually move by
the feed it only appears to have moved
back one and a half as far as any of
those points with no Hazen sound or you
could just do that how do you break like
to four where does it go what no change
to the answer nothing happening oh say
that box so it's not look for where will
this new answer be well the original
position which is what it specifies in
here was 2 so the new position will be
taken with you negative 1 will be and
then the vapor to negative 1/2 will be
negative 1/2 4 over the origin that's
one of the significant points because
it's a turning point usually these
questions it's usually just the turning
points defined in the the transform ones
0 0 will let go well no change to the
answers still being 0
was the original position so 2x plus 3
is the original position
so 2x will be negative 3 so X will be
negative one and a half to negative one
and a half and same with the other one
will be negative 2 4 go well I'll still
be at 4 coz no change to the answers but
what would happen to negative 2 under
that well the original position
the original I'm sort of original
position was negative 2 because that's
what it was to begin with
where's its new position just like that
y stands for the new position for y it's
going to be taken out of a negative 5 so
X is negative 5 but 2 negative 2/9 so
the graph would look like this I just
expect the two times X means it's been
squashed this all the efforts width but
it's not move back 3 so I'm going by 1
and 1/2 because of that inverse effect
of that because you have to think of the
opposites all the time the puts of each
of the things in the bracket and then
finally what about one pin them all
together like this one so what would the
graph of this look like if that was the
original function well you can see this
the powers to this does the amplitude
there's the change to the height you
would call that an amplitude change
there's an addition to the answers
that's like a vertical shift
those are change in positions it's going
on to think of that like a frequency
change because if you're multiplying if
that was a two I'm going to get squashed
off it's like soon dweebs getting
compressed I'm surface' half is like
them getting expanded you can think of
that like the frequency change but
having pain it's in output my separate
horizontal shift
so what come to this it's going to be
twice the height upside down shift it up
five that's where the new answers are
twice the height opposite don't shift it
up five at some a certain yarn so where
they're going to be maybe double withing
there originally so it's going to get
expanded across the way after that you
can sketch it out way or you could take
the significant points
and just do this to the tim plotter
start from the seat so negative 2 for
weird with it go it's important to
remember there's two parts this that
stands for the new my coordinate there's
the original answer and there's the
original position for those answers some
a new answer is going to be 5 minus 2
times my wall dancer so if I was to
spell all out this is going to be 5
minus 2 times my all-time self and in
here the original position was negative
2 so I could see how half of X was
negative 2 which means it's going to go
to 5 take away 8 is negative 3 now if
1/2 of X is 2 that means a new X will be
take to cross multiply negative 4 the
point 0 0 where will it go well answers
the original answer was 0 5 minus 2
zeros is 5 where is it going to be well
the original I'm sort was at 0 so the
new answer is going to be 2 zeros
still 0 where will the point 2 4 go or
if the original answer is 4 F stands for
that then the new answer Y is going to
be 5 minus 2 4 5 minus 8 so it's going
to be negative theagain where will it be
well the original position was a - so
the new position must be out to get to
cross multiply must be at 4 and then put
it all together and to get this so what
you've got is it should be twice the
height went from 0 to 4 which was a
difference of 4 notes going from
negative 3 to 5 the difference of a so
it's been stretched to twice the height
negative means it's no upside down five
means once that happened because it
should have been opposite and so on it's
all been shifted up 5 has gone through 5
and then what about the positions of
them well everything is going to be
double weird it was to begin with so
it's been sprayed
to twice the distance that's still a bit
the origin so the origin itself doesn't
change Hey a quick visual recap right
will display the dissolve eat elevation
sighs well it's because screen and ends
of the box are holds all the goblins and
they'll be here for controls the same as
those for different operations and every
secret button right on the other set of
axes so you can see who moves the boat
then for this first button let's
describe you graphing so there's a graph
no the first control here is going to
change the vertical expansion that would
be like the teacher topic that should
stretch up and down much like this upper
cause and if it's a fraction doing a
course and those controls when the
effective vertical shift over adding
subtracting numbers upper goes for I
think don't goes for subtracting the
next little button here is going to be
like the frequency asking effect across
the LI squashing and or so as your tonic
squashes and the opposite of fractions
it expands it and the last button is
going to be a horizontal shift again
doing the opposite as you add to it I'm
so goes backwards and as you go
backwards goes forwards so what what if
the amplitude was negative a puppy
negative button here press that button
and it pops upside down positive answers
become negative answers and the sames
before that expand them ugly bro and
same with the frequency if that was a
negative multiplying number pop the
reverse is side to side and again it
does the opposite expanding and
contracting it and what's this V secret
bonus ate here last not in the higher
course this is the modulus button it's
an absolute value tons negatives into
positives so pressing that but put all
the negative box flip up into positive
pops so there we are then what forgot
let's call these buttons ABCD the seams
you had before so that the linear
transformation of a function could be
made up of these four parts a the
multiplied number which expands it be
chef set C compresses a d Musa vine
forth there as a final more involved
example then there's a function what
would the graph of this
- formation look like make a half all
the alterations of revamped 4 - 2 X - 1
what with this graph look like first of
all you did is no graph 1 but y equals f
of X itself the original graph now would
look like this where the tolling points
could be finding some by differentiating
that equal to 0 and where it cuts the x
axis can be found by equating that to 0
and then solving that factorizing and
solving it but in general filling out
this graph would already be given the
other thing is these points on the x
axis may we all not need to be put into
the answer if they transform off the net
x axis they no longer the interesting
points the only interesting points in
the graph are these stunning points and
where it cuts the axis while making that
for after but where it cuts the axis so
what does I stood or use another talk
transforming a television there's the
graph or the different operations are
going to happen to that graph what was
four of them the first bet the amplitude
to have the chief's amplitude 1/2 but
it's still positive 1/2
and so that be the first thing that we
don't ever do because you carry the
normal rules of operations here on the
answer its multiply and then add with
the net members that reverse of the
operations so so I'm going to be
subtract the 4 and then divide by the
negative 2 and order so there's a half
operating minute Foss so that Tom that
back to half then all shrinks by 1/2
vertical shift of negative 1 so if I
turn that to negative 1 then it shifts
down one I've lost these interesting
points where it cuts the x-axis because
the wax is still there because there's
no negative one having dropped negative
one
next would be the for a shift of four
would have the opposite effect like this
so it's all them back for whoops soft
the scale here so
that picture a bit smaller then the
negative two so a frequency of 2 but
make it negative so possible the
negative button and that flips over then
frequency of 2 then squashes all up by 2
so a lot of metallic points are going
I've lost those other interesting points
we are going to cut the axis I'd have to
do that based on other calculation but
you would have to do that in the higher
and then I'll just be a case of where
were the new tunnelling points be late
doing that by the calculations then 2
over these figures so I'll directly what
would happen well the only two
significant points of these tonic points
what would happen to them well the point
negative 2 16 would go to like what
would happen to it the answer the new
answer is 1/2 the old answer which is
this the original answer so I'm doing a
half of the 16 I could spell it out a
half of 16 particularly one what about
the new position as this X here or the
old position is going to be negative 2
so the new position is going to be
equally solved I just am here to x
equals 2 to process 6 so X is going to
be 3 then you and subscribe to the after
16 8 take away 1 7 so that point is
going to transform to the point 3 7 what
about the point 2 negative 16
where will it go well that's the old
answer the new answer is 1/2 of the old
answer so it's 1/2 of negative 16 take
away 1 that's the old position the new
position will be this 4 minus 2 x equals
the old position so that means the new
position is going to be solving that 2 x
equals 2
chapters 2 so X is just 1 and 1/2 of
negative 16th and your answers negative
either ticular 1 is negatively if
Buzzard only points on the interesting
point to know for certain and my new
graph and that would do for a sketch
over because these other points these 3
points on the x-axis are going to get
transformed off of it and so I'm going
to get transformed to a point on the
x-axis I would use them we'll do it for
just one of them just been changed 0 0
where is that going to go or the same
thing it's going to be 1/2 of the times
of 0 take away 1 so it's negative 1 so
say we it's dropped off the x-axis so it
doesn't matter later cause I've got an
uninteresting point floating about but
in the graph off of the axis somewhere
not scary at all a bit what would this
be that would be 4 minus 2x equals 0 for
this one 4 minus 2x equals 0 so chases 4
so I'm good the origin is going to go to
the point 2 negative 1 and suddenly with
those two they're going to move off the
axis if you to exact same calculation
thing with the Advanta quarter which
means that the graph then would look
like so this would be it where the only
interesting points are these two here
the two turning points
I got original from straight away from
the little one because these other
points will it cut the x-axis has no
dropped off and become uninteresting
points the other interesting point would
be where does it cut the axis I can't
get them directly by a simple
transformation
mention that in a minute I could get
that one that's not too bad to find
where the new graph cuts the y-axis
because I've cut it by axis at the new X
when x is 0 so I could do that quite
quickly I can Walker the new my
coordinate of where it cuts the y-axis
by just doing a half of F times 4 minus
2 teams and just position to that minus
1 so that's going to be 1/2 of F of 4
take my other things for so f of 4 minus
1 so it's a half of could fall into the
original function
and that would be four cubed minus
twelve times four minus one that's a
high for 64 minus 48 minus one that's
going to be I have or 16 minus one so
it's 8 minus 1 which is 7 so new the new
I know the new graph will cut at 7
however finding where then you could
have cuts the x-axis a lot of the more
complicated your problem will be asked
for that to find whether you can have
cuts the x axis as I said the new
y-coordinates going to be 0 in which
case I have to solve this 1/2 of F of 4
minus 2x minus 1 as T equals 0 which
means I've got F of 4 minus 2x equals 1
then double that equals 2 now what does
F do to this property sign it that will
be 4 minus 2x cubed minus 12 times the
things operating on 4 minus 2x equals 2
I'd have to solve that equation which
would pull out pretty nasty left lime
sauce you can either multiply that out
on top of cubic equal to 0 I'll try and
flag today's it or you could use a
change of VA table but as far as the
house concerned you and bib doing that
at all it would just be where with the
interesting points go to and possibly
because that's not too bad where does in
you can have cut the by axis there
let's graph this equation y equals 2x
minus 1 using the slope intercept form
well I always like to write that form
underneath it y equals MX plus B because
right away
I know what my slope M is and what my
y-intercept B is now to graph it we
always graph the y intercept first in
this case the y intercept is negative 1
so I go over here to my y-axis and I put
a dot at negative 1 my next step is the
slope and I know the slope is 2 because
I get it from right here well remember
the slope is rise over run so I need to
write this as a fraction anytime we have
a whole number we simply put a 1
underneath it 2 over 1 so what I do is I
start from my y-intercept I start from
negative 1 and I rise to so I go up 2
and then I run one I put another dot
let's do that again
I go up to 1/2 and run 1 and I can keep
doing that up 2 over 1 forever and ever
and then you draw Oh kind of draw the
line hopefully you do a little better
than I did and you always want to label
it y equals 2x minus 1 just so that your
instructor knows that's what this graph
is supposed to be and that's all there
is to graphing using the y intercept
formula let's graph this equation y
equals 2/3 X plus 2 using the slope
intercept form well I always like to
write that form underneath my equation
and the reason is that I can see exactly
what M is my slope and exactly what my
y-intercept B is right away so my
y-intercept B equals 2 and that's
actually what I'm going to graph first
so go over here to my y-axis remember
the y-intercept is where it crosses the
y axis and I put a really good dot there
then I look at my slow
M equals 2/3 and I also remember that
slope is rise over run so in this case
I'm going to go up to and I'm going to
run 3 2 over 3 so let's do that I'm
going to go up to 1 2 and then run 3 1 2
3 and I can do that again up to 1 2 and
run 3 1 2 3 and I can keep doing that
forever and ever
now an interesting thing about this is
2/3 is a positive fraction well I could
also say that's negative 2 over negative
3 they're the same because remember a
negative divided by negative is a
positive so in this case if I start from
my y-intercept - I would go down 2 and
then negative 3 so I'm going to go down
to 1/2 and then negative 3 1 2 3 just
see that this is going to end up on the
same line let's do it again down 2 and
over 3 1 2 now I'm going to try to graph
this one the best I can and you should
use a ruler when you're doing this and
then I'm going to label it y equals 2/3
x + 2 + and that's all there is to that
let's graph the equation y equals
negative 1/2 X + 3 using the slope
intercept form to do that I always like
to write that form y equals MX plus B
right underneath the equation that I'm
going to graph because then I don't have
to guess what my M is and M is my slope
or what might be is and B is my
y-intercept so what we have to do first
is graph the y intercept and in this
case it's 3 now the y intercept means
where it crosses the y axis so I'm going
to put a really good dot here at 3 now
I'm going to look at my
M equals negative 1/2 now that means
rise over run to do that instead of
going up like I'm used to doing I'm
actually going to go down in the
negative direction because it's a
negative one my run is still positive so
I'm going to go in the positive
direction so let's do that we're going
to start here at my y-intercept of 3 I'm
going to go down 1 and positive 2 down 1
positive 2 like keep doing that to
infinity now what interesting thing is
negative 1 over 2 is the same thing as 1
over negative 2
those are both negative 1/2 I can also
graph this one using rise over run but
in this case my rise will be in the
positive direction but my run will be in
the negative direction so let's start at
the y-intercept of 3 again this time I'm
going to go up 1 and run 2 now you see I
did that in the negative Direction up 1
in the positive and 2 in the negative do
you see that these all line up so I'm
going to try to graph that as best I can
you should be using a ruler so yours
will look even better than mine and
what's helpful for instructors is if you
actually label it and that's all there
is to graphing using the y intercept
form
.
Let us solve a set of graphic representation of linear equations issues
There is a range of ways that enable you to represent equations graphically
What we do in this presentation is to use the basic method
Where we will set a set of values and then
Blade points
You see what cluster do
I have here an equation, linear equation
I'll write them because this is a very small line. y =
2x + 7
I want to represent this linear equation
Before the extracted graph paper, what can I do
It is a table setting
Where I would choose a range of values of x will then I can find
The value of y that correspond
With values for x
For example, if x = Start --dona worth Mnkhvdh--
If x = -2
What is the value of y?
Well, we compensate -2 in the equation
Becomes 2  -2 + 7
-4 = 7 +
This is equal to 3
If x = x values --anna chose at random
Can be Dalalah-- maybe I'll put three or four
Points here
Mazma occurs when x = 0?
The y will be equal to 2  0 + 7
Ie equal to 7
what about
I will make a higher value by 2
You can choose the number 1 or higher than that
Choose to prepare a random manner
When x = 2, how the value of y?
It will be 2  2 + 7
Any 4 7 + 11 =
I continue to set the points if you want it
We have to get enough points so that we can represent
In fact, even represent any line, we will need only two points
We have one redundant
Let me do I dissolve one another even explained to you that
This line
If what happens when x = 4?
In fact, do not even rise by 2, let's say that x = 8
They chose a random number
And y will be 2  8 + 7, any --hassana
Maybe he will emerge from the graph paper that Dana-- but 2  8 = 16
7 + 23 =
Now let us represent
Let me put the y-axis here
This is the y-axis
Let me put the x-axis
I have many positive values here, if we need a large extent
On the y-axis positive
This is the x-axis
Then I will use the points x = -2
It is -1
If 0, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, 6, 7 and 8
Those are the values of x
Then we can move to the top on the y-axis
And I will gradually slightly different because this
Numbers will grow up quickly
Perhaps I'll put multiples of 2
Shall be 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16
I continue here, but
Let's assign these points
I have the first point is x = -2, and y
= 3
I can type axes
The point will be 2,3-
x = -2
y = 3
3 location here
If this is your first point, 2,3-
Then the next point
0.7
Soaanha this color
0.7
x = 0
Y = 7
Here
0.7
We have these green here
Point 2,11
2,11 will be here
2,11
Then another point --hzh actually fall
From graphic representation
8.23
It will be up here somewhere
If you can see what I do
It's 8.23
If we get points, you will see that the line is made up. Let me
Out of these points
I Smthm manually as it is clear that this will probably not be
Straight Line accurately
If you have a computer Fastainwa it, where it will be a straight line
You can continue to choose the values of x and find
y values that are compatible with
In the case of y is the coupling of the values of x
If you continue to set each point, you'll get a line
If you choose all possible values of x and all appointed, you'll get
Each point on the line
Let's solve another issue
At the airport, you can Nghier from your currency
Dollars to euros
From dollars to euros
The service cost is $ 5
For every dollar, you get 0.7 euros
For every dollar, you get 0.7 euros
'Make this Jdoas and appointed pairing on the graphic representation
They used graphic representation until you set how many currency that you will receive them in euros
If the office $ 50 have reflected
I will write = EUR --dona see if it will turn
To $
Even Simply Euros must give them the dollar
Even Simply Euros must give them the dollar
If you are going to take $ 5
If dollars - 5
This service costs $ 5
All that remains is --hma
Albaga-- you will get 0.7 euros per dollar, the rest of the
You'll get 0.7 for everything remains
If this is the relationship
Now we can assign points --amcunnina answer
Asked
If you gave them $ 50, and we have to look at the graphic representation
But we will look to the graphic representation of what then
If you put EUR = -If given them
$ 50-- will be 0.7  50 - 5
50 gave them
They took 5-for-service
If the remaining $ 45, shall be 0.7  45
I'll do this here
45  0.7
7  5 = 35
4  7 = 28, + 3 = 31
Then we left our number one just behind the comma Aladharah
It is these only 7
If the output 31.5
If I gave them $ 50, you'll get 31.5 euros
Euros, not dollars
If we answer the question, but let
We represent graphically
Let us draw a table
Perhaps Sostkhrj calculator
I will refer to him some thing
To put the dollars that I have given them
Dollar
How many euro got it?
I will prepare a random group
If I gave them $ 5, your clients will take
$ 5 of them for the service
You will receive $ 5-5, ie 0  0.7
If you will not call you anything in return
So there is no good reason to do this thing
Then if I gave them $ 10
What will happen?
If I gave them $ 10, 10 - 5 = 5  0.7
You'll get $ 3 --ao Maybe I should say EUR 3.50
You will get EUR 3.50
Now what happens if I gave them $ 30?
Or in fact, let me tell 25
If you gave them 25 $, 25 - 20 = 5
20  0.7 = $ 14
I will put the value of other
To transport you gave them $ 55
This makes the simplest account for you
It will go from the number 5
55 - 5 = 50,  0.7 = $ 35
Is that correct?
Yes thats right
You'll get 35 euros
All of the currency of the euro
I barely kept the dollar tell
Let we employ
All these values are positive, if only that Ali
Draw the first quarter here
All of these positive values
If the dollar --dona keep staging multiples of 5, ie 5, 10, 15
20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50.55
I have painted the x-axis a little shorter than I need
This is up to 55
Then y axis
Staging will be a multiple of 5
5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35
Well, this is more than I need
35
Now let's assign these points
I will give them $ 5
Get 0 Euro
This Euro
This dollar
The dollar is the independent variable and we have to find
Euro through
Or that the euro depends on
Dollars that I have
If I gave them $ 10, I get EUR 3.50
3:50 difficult to read --mn
Maybe 3.50 is located here
If I gave them $ 25, I will get 14 euros
25.14 is located here
As is clear, this manual drawing vegan, so it will not be
Very accurate
If I gave them $ 55, I will get 35 euros
If 55.35 is located here
If you want to connect the points, you have to get something
Is similar to the line
If you do -If you computer
It will be exactly the line
It looks very good
Then we can see what we are required to do
We use the graphic representation so that we define the number of the euro, which we will get it
If the office Aattiynt $ 50
50 here
We will start if
I'm going to chart
Age we go all this way --In fact, I have painted another
Point on the graph incorrectly some thing
Let me
Let me
35 is located here
Let me re-draw that point
35 is almost here
If 55.35 is located here
Let me re-draw the line
It will look like --kadd forgot 25
25.14 is located here
I will make the graph so Beidou
This is my best
Now let's answer the question
Here we gave them $ 50
We go to the top, to the top, to $ 50
And will receive
We continue to go on the left side
This is approximately 31.50
I have using the formula we have created
But you can see, you can be seen from the graph and
Find any value for the dollar
If I gave them $ 20, we will go all this
the path
You'll find that he must be --hassana, $ 20 must be equal
7:50
The inaccuracy of the official chart makes it
Cruder
When you say 5 - 20 = 15
15  --In fact, it will be a little more
From $ 10, this is true
Will be here
If you put $ 20 here 20 - 15 = 5
15  0.7 = $ 10.50, which is located here
You can consider Mas to any point in the graphic representation and find
The number of euro which you will receive
Let us represent this while we
Read graph
Chart --aatkd he told us that we use the graph below
Oh, the graph shows the conversion of representation to
Switching between weight unit kg
The unit weight of pounds
Use it to convert the following measurements
We have a kilogram here and a pound here
If the desired 4 kilogram unit pound
If we look at this here 4
Kilogram here
We track the graph
If 4 kilograms to pounds, it will look like, I do not know
Down 9 pounds a little
A little less -If
9 I will write about a pound
You can not see exactly
It is less than 9 pounds a little
4 kg. 9 yen kg, go here
9 kg. We go to the top
It seems that almost 20 pounds
Here we have 12 pounds to Snholha kg. Actually
The kilogram is a block, but I do not want to get it accurately
12 lbs
Here we go
pound
12-pound unit kilogram, seems to 51/2
Almost 51/2
Then 17 pounds to kg
If 17 here
17 pounds to kilograms, it seems to 71/2 kg
In any case, I hope that these examples of thee
Relaxed somewhat with respect to the representation of equations graphically and read graphical representations
Equations
See you in the following view
.
hi I'm Gail Locke McDowell author of
cracks and footing interview today I
want to talk about graphs and common
operations like breadth-first search and
depth-first search
so to go back to the beginning a graph
is basically a collection of nodes where
each node might point to other notes and
these these edges can be directed so
like one-way streets or undirected so
kind of two-way streets now suppose you
want to go walk through this graph and
specifically suppose you want to do
something like figure out is there a
path from one node to another there are
two common ways of doing this and we'll
talk about both of them the first one is
a little bit more simplistic and it's
called depth-first search and it's a
typically recursive algorithm and the
way it looks like is saying okay we have
this initial node that I'm going to call
s now you basically are asking a
question hey s do you have a path to
node T and that says hmm I'm not sure
let me go ask my children and first s
goes to node and it says hey do you have
a path to a node T if you do then hey
I'm done I can give you my answer if you
don't then let me go ask B and then C
and then D and so but the very first
person we ask is a so it gets asked hey
do you have a path to T I'm not sure let
me go ask my children and eventually
might get to get to a node who says why
yes of course I have a path I am T and
so then we go and say boop-boo-boo-boop
all the way back up yes there's a path
and that's the basics of death
depth-first search
it's called depth-first search because
we'd go deep into some node before you
even ask any of the children now the
problem with this is that we might run
really really far away so imagine for
example that B actually has a path
directly to node T has an edge directed
to no T a might go to all of its
children all of its children all this
children
before I even get to be and T was right
there there could have been a really
fast connection so that's why we might
often prefer to use breadth-first search
instead breadth-first search says hey go
a level by level out so first we ask s
hey do you have a path to t and s we'll
say well let me check if any of my nodes
are T no there's no edge right there so
each of those get in line and then we
ask the second level out and then the
third level out and the next level in
next level my next level and so we go
level by level breadth we go wider
before we go deep and that's why it's
called breadth-first search so I want to
talk at a high level about the
implantation of each before I dive into
some of the details so depth-first
search is implemented with a recursive
algorithm it's probably the simpler
algorithm to implement the only little
trick is that you have to make sure to
use an is visited flag so that you don't
wind up in some sort of infinite loop
where there's you know a cycle and you
keep asking each node if it has and you
start one running around in a circle
with breadth-first search the main trick
you need to remember is you want to lose
a queue so when you look when you look
at s you say hey jiva path to t you're
going to go add all of its children to
the queue and rather than going
recursively you pull out the first
element - from the queue check if it has
a path the attack of it is this final
element and if not go at all if it's
children to it so you use a queue so
that you go go through things in the
correct order so that's the high level
how it works let's turn to the real
details of the implantation now I've
gotten a bit of a head start on the
implantation but I'll show you just
quickly what I've done so first we have
this node class here and it's going to
have some sort of ID that represents the
node ID and what I've done is give
ourselves a mapping of from node ID to
the actual node and this is mostly going
to be used for things like get node and
add edge this way we can actually just
go and get on get immediate access to
the node with particular ID
and then I've also given us this has
path depth-first search method and it's
going to call after this recursive
method so if you remember with it with
depth-first search
we need to have a way of flagging nodes
to say hey I've already visited this
don't retry it so one thing we could do
is we could actually modify the node
class to give ourselves an is visited
flag but that requires then making sure
we clear the that flag later on another
way of doing it is giving ourselves a
hash set that lists all of the IDS that
I've already of the nodes that I've
already visited it's sort of a
replacement for a flag so I'm going to
do it this way this way I don't have to
modify and add a whole bunch of flags in
and then make sure to clear them later
on so I get the source node I get the
destination node and then I get this
create this visited hash set and then I
go out and call the this recursive
method so now is where the fun begins so
first if I've already visited this node
if visited on contains this source ID
then return false because there is no
path Bend
okay otherwise then what I want to do is
so now I want to go and make sure I you
know update this mark this note is
visited and then I want to say okay if
if I'm at my source then return if I'm
at my destination rather then return
true because yes there's certainly just
a path in otherwise go and check all my
children see if any of them have paths
because if there's a path from a child
to me then then there's certainly a
final then the certainly a path from me
to my destination
so for each node a child in sourced at
adjacent if there's a path from child to
destination passing it again visited
then be sure and true and that will
bubble all the way up the stack
if I get on the very end and I haven't
found a path yet then there is no path
for me to my destination now let's turn
to how breadth-first search works okay
so breadth-first search so what I need
with breadth first search is I need a
linked list of sort of what I'll call
the like next step so these are the I'll
call this next to visit these are the
nodes that I need to visit next and just
just before I need this visited hash set
the represents everything I've already
visited and then I want to say next to
visit first link because the first thing
I need to visit is in fact my source
then as long as there is nothing in this
is a while visited or sorry now aisle
next to visit dot is empty so while it's
not empty keep going alright so first
thing it so I need to look gap my very
first node to visit so node node equals
next to visit dot I'll call this remove
so remove the very first node in that
that list if this is my destination then
there are certainly a path now I also
want to do my visited checking so if
visited dot contains of node ID then
actually just continue let's go to the
next value otherwise visited dot add of
node ID so market is visited and then go
and actually add my children so for each
node child
in no jacent go and add each of those to
my next two visits next to visit dot add
of child all right and that's all there
is to depth to breadth-first search and
then of course if i get down to the very
end and i haven't found a path yet
return false let's walk through this
code again and make sure that this makes
sense so has Pat DFS takes in the source
and destination IDs and then I get those
nodes and then I create this hash steps
that should be a hash set not a hash map
and then goes in actually just this
recursive method so the recursive method
has this visited thing so we use a
visited hash set instead of marking the
actual nodes of the flag so the visited
check if it text that contains the
source ID if it does contain that if I
already visited this return false
because there's no path then otherwise
go and add this visited marker this
notice visited you check check my source
of my destination she wasn't already
there return true otherwise go and
search all of my children then so that
and then if I haven't found a path go
return false so with BFS we are taking
in a source and a destination
so here I've used nodes I'll switch this
actually be symmetric and use IDs again
and so I'll make that public and this
private now okay so I take in the source
and destination IDs and then I go and
call this recursive method so Maya
cursive method sorry this other just
helper method so this takes in the
source and destination I create this
list of the next nodes I have to visit
and this visited hash set that should be
hashed it again and this marks all the
nodes that have already visited so I say
ok next one to visit is my source then
as long as there's something left to
visit pull out the next node to visit
check if I'm where I should be if so
return true otherwise
check and update my visit head nice or
who's who I visited and then go and
queue up my children at the very end of
the queue to be visited next and those
and this will this will ensure that my
children are not visited immediately but
are visited once sort of everything in
everything schedules has already been
visited so done sure it will visit level
by level by level and then if I get on
the very end and I haven't found my
destination after all of this then just
return false so that's how both first
search operates in many cases when we
want to find if there's actually a path
breadth-first search is often the better
approach because otherwise we could wind
up searching really really far away when
there's actually a very short connection
and it's certainly better when we want
to find the shortest path so now that
you've seen breadth-first and
depth-first search why don't you try
these out on a new problem good luck
Oh
Yes
hi my daughter when we turn
today for a test video
Graphite markers you not have me
spoken ill I expect my message is
a tanger has made happy on a
sample of these markers in Site
called Invictus for the link is
in the description and that will all
kinds of hardware stationery
Gallery you can find them
over there complete information in
description and so that's pretty
near what I so I could the
I did try also this graph
in joke or not we'll talk
in the video, but that's in you I
still had a few hours to
I use them and offers
today to make a video test
that we will split a little video
three parts we will begin by making a
few presentations and then I will
say what I liked is what I
not like
with these markers and finally I you
show just how to use them
although it does not differ much from
others felt brief alcohol I'm going
tell you is gone I hope it
will please you
but first I wanted to clarify
two important things first
is that I did receive his
free brands but what I do
in this video is to express my
I own opinion can be designed
I have not been paid to tell you
things I would think not so
this is really what I think I was
vis--vis these markers
secondly I just wanted you
keep in mind that this is not the
equipment that will make you better and
that invest in there is pleasure
to have a good tool but it is not
having a good tool that will
increase the quality of your work
So just keep in mind I
grants you have already received your
guest you are already trained with
simpler things before buying
good material
that's my opinion you may like
now you want the heart of the
subject then I present the
graphite markers is not completed
a graphic because graf
it comes from graffiti and graffiti loose p
it is the graphics so do not
the misspelling nothing
with short graffiti saying what I
presents the graphite martyrs
What does that these are markers
alcott so they are part of this
Felt great family that are
professionals in the measurement and you
afford to have made at the
colors that is very uniform
able to gradients 17 makes
well and it's good I finally you
show more detail what has been
do with it how you
use it to their
features and applications more
they are close relatives with whom they are
will not top triangular
they are somewhat in between what
that it does not roll too
there is a small distance is a bevel
the other side is marking there it
boasts the site that sent you
0.68 and that means they are
cheaper than marker pros
sold around 3 euros
the unit when not taking
teams who are mothers a little
cheaper than the line styles
other competitors so I have
book sensation is sealed disembark
the cheapest market
Overall I make this video it
is why it is worth it
will raise the question of their quality
you also I will seek
a blender in the color range
So with a brush tip and a
fine point the key there are a total of
159 color I think knowing they have
also a small planet so I
know too many boundaries I knew
found during a small video
palette that allows mixing
colors'll talk after so
but consider that there are 159 colors
different in their range
right now I think we did a
little presentation round
Now I'll give you my
opinion on these markers so I will
bring a little in disorder of
but points considered views
but I'll say it like that myself
comes and here we left and therefore the
first thing that struck me with its
markers is in fact the ranger they
feel they train hard enough
then you will tell me my normal
this is indeed the markers is not
more to the point of putting on a mask but
it's a small detail that for me
was important because
materials I had before did not feel
not as strong and early it work
which can hinder me before I
accustomed and therefore good that is a point
sensitive to simple bag odor
details
they have a pretty strong smell pretty
special drawing even made it
I'll do not know two weeks
I make it still feel a
little that's funny because I had
really it with others
markers used to date
good bah now I'm a little detail
then our small point is that the
made debut in the wind from his
car that was perhaps a bit
more aggressive so the liners
black pens I used to
now I had a little bit that is
that generous so I had to
buy
I had before a thorn that is not
best land but it worked
well with gold has eventually I had to
therefore redeem for other liner
apologizing to have problems and I am
now it was adjusted
jefri therefore the 7 and 9 and copies
like that you know it works
surely there are also liners of
graphic mark I have not tried
but you will at least certainty
that the stella copies
works well with graphs so
then use it seemed
in that these markers was a little
more accurate than the pros markers
the sense that their lair spread me if
I show you that I can just by
such that the two markers and
let them eager to go to class
on the printer paper is
really what is worse for that
test markers and alcohol
precisely because it is the ink
This year really strong magnitude
spreads easier it is to make
guards and is no longer in this album
So here but precise in that had
be it's a little more accurate than
take for this year -
Anyway use but I will
explain a few things after
I submit to show you the
Unlike tasks that size
with heart program here was
slightly bigger on a right note
to illustrate the fact that you
first were a little less accurate
but but there are two reasons for that to
I think that I am showing you here
the graphics is more accurate
This is due to a defect pros
mark kirk has a quality graphite
why I say that simply because
the stopper marker pros
inside there are small forms
fine enough a small cylinder that comes
surround the mine
in fact every time we their mouth is
tends to slug it out and thus its
room crushes slowly the mine and
our printing projects I have not hurt
the damage done by mining right
hiring muffled by hitting the
cylinders inside the
stopper which is not the case that
graphics so I have the feeling that
min and the graph that you're the
9 temptation is actually about
equivalent to that of marker pros
but I do not think I'm in the usa
rebouchant moving because it is
done so that I will not
hit the mine in here
I hope you understand that
I can not say it's not very
serious
the main thing is just to know that
offer here in my opinion is Alain
still a little bit less in total
case when used this is
and therefore feels it could be a
little more difficult to make
degraded and in fact it was less
Obviously, with the pros marker
make gradients with markers
but it is enough just to press a little
more on paper over the arrival in
end it works well I can
show in your book what it
became more ways the end of the
video I explain how
how to do it but you see I
found a place on the summary
liquid actually what I think
this is where there is most shades
Here you see that not send too
mark hurd costs are seen
still a little bit more because
it's always yes it is true that bin
then start with me it's more
complicated as degraded but after
those latter a question of use
how they use and I have not
either we do not see too costs
markers we learn something
da is nice enough, and then we can
always come with their blender after
refine degrade since
works quite well and once again
I will show you that at the end of the
video
regarding the quality of
colors and durability I know
what to tell you but if I
see something unusual on the
Aging of this drawing I would
its author a small annotation
Video rolls to you
you say you inform how
long is a marker that is always
a question
a question that can not
really answer insofar
ride
I did not test so I know
what is their capacity and it will
highly dependent is also
how they can be used on any
paper type and so good but grosso
I'd speaking I can not tell you
but in fact it really depends
happy to use but it lasts
as relatively much if you take
appropriate paper also about
paper I told you from the inside
it was absolutely not a good
idea to draw on the leaves
printer
because in fact last year talent
really everywhere and it's absolutely not
prescillia leaving on sheets
Canson but now I think it's not
a good idea because it's
cardboard absorbs it still okay
of the final you will really
super user for nothing so your markers
there are two solutions
it's either you take care of
blocks of leaves called
paper layout therefore a very paper
his purposes to be treated fairly
used with alcohol markers Tajan
is perhaps not so here
second solution is the bar zac
loop
they are also treated first
Alcohol marker but in this case I
I have a young black book style file there
also those who are being made on
the website that sells the charts
I mentioned there are black
And I will book you read in
description
I have not tested but good word
the key is to find black book
that is done for markers
school since there are still a
small chemical treatment on paper
which I hear is not too
spread out and so it's a little bit
less raw paper besides that
you have a block here but frankly
okay it's just does not arise from
problem after you do your accounts
ourida not no worry too much
and I prefer knowledge over there
for all my drawings
inside it but so do
careful because every black book
do not necessarily make for
alcohol markers that you have
are made to draw in pencil on
Felt to water and therefore this look
what you buy
taking something that would be treated
for alcohol markers again
a small detail on charts
was a little shy at first
it is in fact the color you
two have the cap is not
always faithful to this smells
really fire for example if
Looks in a fairly light gray Final
it's a blue gray but darker
that the color of this buffoon
stuff what is the good
Most sarts to have markers
really all colors
all in full compliance with
plugs but here there are still not
lot of anger that are not quite
such as flies have so it is
better try after a fine paper
try it before you do it on a
vulnerability to side and then right after
gradually we begin to know
its brands by heart
the need to do this but I
first it was just a little confusing
sometimes to have a color with a
highest number clearer
another so it's trial have
a small sheet and then try
before using the boxes
they are nice enough latro
society rather well done and then it
seemed to hold we all have
markers that are there so much for
Package five tested rather
good thing
I know that good is still a
detail but here I speak to you
and here we did a little tour of
presentations but I think
Now we will sacrifice a beach
Mount black book that I show you
how they are used and therefore the
first thing I wanted you
talk is the small hall is
I mentioned at the time Graphite
manufacturer makes a kind of a sheet
little odd with a sort of left
matt above does not absorb and slow
this is the idea to use it to m
giving with different markers
The pallet is then come
recover the blender for Papola
went the color of our
leaves is and it is true that it
we can mix colors for
create our own colors
or so to
degraded or diluted then really
color shades for more
clear because it works because
it does not work I think it is a
little marketing but there are still
a little thing to do I want to show
immediately and explain why
then parentheses both tasks
who are there it is I who made
truly the queue is full
how you can have
biggest cadets also needs 4
but hey that's it grows it can
Wash
but hey I think it's better to
still have some of
reserve so the first idea
this planet if he would actually
take relatively colors
So far if I have a yellow and a
red light and then put them here
to mix and get the color
intermediate and then that way we
Looks like I wish all
colors of the world
However it work not so easily
it why
well because when you take a
yellow red it put you
colors together you then
come take your iPod with the pl
make your blender to mix
rigor you will be able to make a
small color area actually
intermediary but otherwise ok especially
be of the intermediate color
therefore diluted the final color you
going to have will never be worth a real
through orange that's why
I think for supermarkets
like as I do when I'm doing a
graph separately useful for me
make mixtures of colors here as
it works for the people
make small drawings of this manga
stuff because they do not have
major coloring areas
but with large surfaces me
load in much the ink sheet
I bag the world
blender and ultimately that's a small
little to nothing I show you my hosts
therefore it necessarily works
palette is here and so I will
show looks like our yellow
so that the red
and now we will try to make a
color which is intermediate and
m accomplice to the medium to see if it is
interesting to do or not so I
take the good and I'll put on
my palette
a good dose 1
same for the right side orange
and we will come is to mix some
its color and then take Lnder will
from the mix a little bit
fly I'm trying to have
Trains like that now to see if
it works and it was here you see
had at the beginning a clear work they
were it was not too bad
still opaque enough
may be used as colors
intermediate
but soon enough welcomes the brick color
in fact it is difficult to
many colors but the means
just as you see you for a
small area would have been good but
me when I want to do a full guard
with with orange
I will not have fun at the emptying
montrouge is mounted
boon on the internet just to get
So the ranks it works more or
less but the tree is
good area for large surfaces
Here is a gadget and it does not work
really is better to have the marker
Orange is directly to the great
area
against by what can be
interesting for the for context
graff when the paper is used
palette
it is in fact to take a
single color and life to it
accused of having something pretty
the CEPAL and thus gave
pastel colors you can really
administered the dose you put to make
foot guards and I showed you that
so I just want to make a small box
with a black felt here now I
would try to make a gradient
blue with dark blue here blue
clear here and then go to the
White then when you went when
owen its side so to do what I
will spread on the dark blue
palette
so it's better to end with
dark just to be able
the told her as much as possible and
same time put the color well
French have killed him thoroughly
pop and soul fatal custom colors
clear you do not have so much
dark corridor problem we are well on
the cliff and then with the blender
always brush it aside
works best as it is more
solvents that side achieve more
away and cleaned if it has sufficient
was recovered dual fed to
back here therefore see that it is
still French because I have not
too diluted and then when we will go
by voice gradually lose the
color blue to him and what he
started to be something
clearer just by playing away
with that there are ways to make
you can always degraded saw
color once it's on
paper a month to go in order
enders works well as with
Brush the extra is really
your divx she could only manage
what you do then I'll hand
a few dark blue here so it's not
as clear as by using more
colors but there is still a ca
deteriorate with nice color and
bundled
So for once it works when
even not too bad and that's basically what
could do with this palette
Then as if there was a way of
clean washable so it was that
fear not water it a little trick
plastic actually the best way
just do without more than that this
bread would water blender become
Diluted your lair
and then beat the rinse
the water
Once your entry and diluted and
then I could clean like this one
part is this is great
clean my monna lisa is sufficient that
To use certain places
otherwise it seems to me that it sells in a
one direction solvents like that but
lens close to power clean
planet properly and then as I
said as way of having failures is
most have several
So it's called excites me
a small gadget that is right for
their markers blender you it
see that in fact it
montbelleux the mine hour is dirty
However, for me there I'll put myself
in color so I know very green
the Colour
once you went the
color you see still rolling
room but this time there I
more colors that spreads makes it
are hiking or so he sadi
color because you can not see
and it remains fixed inside I
know why but basically it
not pose 3 lanes full of mix
colors with your blender and then
then wipe it twice a night
another sheet and then return
mix other colors even if the
mine is it fact it will not to
color my desire is on your paper
and now I will show you
how to get degraded
using graphite
but ultimately it's the methods that
are fairly common to all
markers and alcohol so I already
explained in some other videos
but I showed you like that messi
it will be done the first way
it would take a color and
the area where I'm going to degrade
I wish I had something more
in dark hawks is clearer we will I
will simply superimpose the fact
layers of the same color
So it is only one marker which
to make one of the grades and I'll
show you so I take it with
the first layer
and in fact the principle is that I will
just try to put more colors
Here already there so there I begin
added here we will see it becoming a
bit darker if I was past
quickly on the edges and now I
will allow to dry and back again
this bag again with seven
shots in there and you will see that
Little by little I will succeed in background
is the color second layer
So actually the idea is just 2
after pushing the color they like that
they could starve to deteriorate
the second layer on the first
WHO standard will be done without too much
problem because I have small strokes
always starting from the dispatch I
want to be darker
So much for the second layer
Now I'll let dry and
then a small fourth layer here
I think there is not bad
so obviously it was not a great
big shade of color and now
it's dark but when it is done it
becomes a little clearer so the
Moselle color when you just
apply always darker than this
you have when it's dry
you see someone just make a
launches e nice and you can also play
is actually the amount of gold cape on
paper what I mean by that
is that if you go quickly
you'll have a pretty clear color
if you go slower
you have a darker color finally
you manage you manage it there are also
through clearly have different
dyed with a single marker
I learn quickly shows how it
happens with two markers one begins
remains to the most color
clear more or less everywhere and then
take the dark before
it is dry and apply the grc
gets darker and after
alternating one and one to many
mixing at the zone of
starting horses now so that
I take the light color I take
bevel can put more people to me
remember my paper
so if I want then I can even
From the place I am most
dark and then accelerated toward the
periphery so I'm already there
a kind of degassing I will come
now before it's 5 meters
my dark so not too because
that we know that the extremely
color although it is true maybe
after three attempts with other
colors but we already know tomatoes
and now I take the power
I mix internship years color
Dark I like that because we nokia
are a darker area
there is not bad if we had
still do more you can
continue in effect as not degrade
not as you wish you alternate
French hallway and light colored
wanted to mix it gradually
the esa and Fnac something
we put a nice color shot
dark or even after it
could take the dark color is
a little a bit accented degraded
the darkest area of the same
so we did here
this is how you go about for
color gradient I can be
met with more colors
away to still combourg
there is some last as focal
colors at the base or on the tipp
less close we'll do it now
So there just to see the sky
fat yellow and orange red you
So it's still relatively
remote, so if it is not so
yellower well soaked peace
now
tackle will take an expensive board
little about the game to take the yellow
blanger here become a little orange
then interned like that until
Whether as you want and put more
light colors that you'll meet
because the light color in the future
uv land
west indies
then here I was doing but just a
little you see that is when
even more difficult when the colors
are far enough so it's not
it's nice alcohol revelers did
never magic in the sense that it is
but still good to have a series
colors that follow are
example when I prefer
degraded quite progressive enough that
to have very strong colors because
you never really have a
good degrade with all its colors
I just want to have fun for you
can see it so I'm not if
see very well, but we still see
So yesterday the listening marker facts
recorded that is created
color there are many colors
intermediate in the middle but this is not
nice is not very very regular
so there are some small kent
shots is not perfect it's better
having many colors
intermediate when we want to do this
kind of degrading and says degraded
I also told Blender rises so
to finally use that famous blender
could degrade it can be nice
for example soaked all
reasons you gradients as if
the blender is definitely out there
then go color you want
degraded to the worm plan
for example so we will get on well
blender once it will never
a little here and then we're with
the blender and try embankment
Heat dilute you take thee
peak to be less well
dilute good I took a dark color
and before it works a little worse
because you really see him and
it's a bit the same principle with
the head 1 virtually silent up that
it's a bit harder it's easy it is
more more blender then for
blow their graphics blender
still works well because
you see that I'm able to dilute the
dark color and define specifications
have so degraded the only danger
is what is happening is
that we must so soaked the
sheet to make you see
I have here the anchor overflowing on
alongside Manning precisely because
I too removed paper so
Here the blender is nice to
with the minor brush mine if you
want to stay clear go easy
supported there I was a bit far and therefore
it exceeded the edges
Another fun way to use leinster
it can be for example to make
grounds once your color
eg dry here I will draw a
line on the edge and it'll no no
clear the area so you see
here along there is a line there is a
respect clearer than I did at
blender that is to use it for
make examples of small water
a ruby
I do not dream about and
always things and you will see
appear after that it'll clear up
So the color for the for once
graffiti zoos blender works
still pretty good yeah use
the blender and then try to
you degrade recover some kind
returning here
to 18 years in color mixing
well after Axa still means 2
improve his guards and more
careful not to over do not
too dilute the color and it
White again become so just a little bit
tried to recover its raised him
a little color but not too much so
in degraded idea he also
a quite technical I look for
make shadows finally you could be
interesting use of this
planet
so I'll take the black
markers where I am and men
I'm just a little on the master
pallet black cause and the idea would
come dilute it with the blender for
apply it on the color and the trains
no it should I take black here
While it is darker there so
I'll put a little test next
anyway yeah I put some
died there and there you have it a
so therefore you want to do and I
think it's really well
difficulty doing so with gray but I
can drown with the same time I had
now he has a little nicer
like that so I think it was a
good use of the Internet iron
house with black and blender
only you can still
absolutely do by way I you
showed that for example I ask
not know if it is well put me
any name lola I made a very
gray so it's not what I have not done
young black I showed you I
do here in gray below the
arrow under down there business
I have both sort that makes a son
which typically shadows the final
when well placed it goes
for others regardless of
color you use, but it
made it a little bit but I think with
with black and the blender she had
beaten for once it worked
well as the palette so it was
interesting
and here I think we have not hurt
tour the ea brands of all
opportunities they finally they offered
have just basic things after
admit they have all its glory
to do what you want to create
So what I propose to you
finish the video is simply that
I'll do a letter and then Metro
completely in colors to give
some cd sports that inspired you
when hatch
on that I do and it concludes
video
and that's just then noticed that the pen
I used white is also the
graphical part but that their range of
acrylic paint felt
if you ever want to have a video
Perhaps on that in a small
little since now
Comments are following me to do
also other materials you
I would like to see the use made
I know this game will be interesting
will probably do it and then and
and then here in conclusion the
felts photographs is when
even a good material
honestly in fact as was the
cheapest on the market I expected
worst
the final I was still surprised
because it worked so well the
particular everything he touched the
blender because four markers I
a little difficult to use in blender
properly and I here for once
everything that was going on with their palette
proves quite nice blender
function properly on paper
colors as such I know
I'm not really the way but
I finally had the association or fes
witnesses or live as colors
other engines that I could see
but a quite acceptable
Local final two biggest flaw
it would be right for me to smell but
it depends on good people and I myself
disturbs some
and the fact that the colors
caps finally this is not always
well done so it is not
always a little wrong with it
find
or so at the rankings
colors not such signs
on the box they put the im not
but on holiday it is a number one
two three small details like that
but to guide for use
are a pleasant is in kamdem
Felt markers and alcohol so all
cases this is good material
I hope this short video you
have enjoyed is the case please
throw a light comments posted
mosque where I had thought if you
want to see as I said other
videos like this on your hardware
and then I do them and this is the
good good day evening
wear well and then very
chao soon Toulon
soccer
today received a job today
necessarily thrown open sea what
I meant the other with with
in appearance seemed so lead
not bad we remember a door
flag called the lakes
good off list they georges charpak
are
you guys how to grab the function X to
the X power and here are some prep work
that we have to do first so let me write
down some notes for you guys here is
note number one
in fact here we actually have a pretty
dangerous number and that's a number 0
suppose X is equal to 0 we are trying to
calculate f of 0 this means I have to
plug in 0 into here in here and we have
0 to the 0 power right here right
however if you are just talking about a
usual computation 0 to a through a power
this is and defined you see we are not
talking about limits whatsoever in that
case for usual computation throughout
was 0 we actually don't have an answer
for that right so we'll just no make
that clear first and then the second
thing is that in this situation X - X
power this is actually not an
exponential function because the base
changes as well we have X as the base
raised to a power right another thing
where to be careful right here is that
we are going to make sure X cannot be
negative right I just want to have the
path the X values and why is that the
case well suppose the following suppose
that if X is a negative number and let
me just give you just an example such as
X equal to negative 1/2 right then what
are we going to end up with plugging
negative 1/2 into this x + X we will end
up with parenthesis negative 1/2 raised
to the negative 1/2 power and check this
out let's focus on the negative power
here the negative power tell us to bring
this down to the denominator right so we
will have 1 over pregnancies with that
which is negative 1/2 and then raised to
the positive 1/2 power right here right
and then you will see that now this past
the 1/2 power
well it's pretty much the square root of
this negative 1/2
you'll see this is one over this becomes
a square root and then we have that
negative 1/2 inside the square root and
of course we are trying to graph this
with real numbers right we are not
talking about complex numbers or
whatsoever when we have a negative
inside the square root this is not good
right it's complex
we cannot grab that and you may be
wondering okay what happen if X is equal
to negative 2 1 negative 3 yes you can
plug in negative 2 or negative 3 into X
and then you actually end out an x value
but whatever you are talking about
graphing functions you want to make sure
that the function it's as continuous as
possible so we'll just want to make sure
that X cannot be negative numbers right
okay
combining these two ideas I can tell you
here third part is that we can talk
about the domain of this function which
is the set of X values such that I don't
want X to be negative I don't want X to
be 0 otherwise this isn't defined in
other word I just want X to be greater
than 0 and that will be the domain for
this function ok now as we talked about
it yes 0 to 0 its undefined when X is
exactly equal to 0 but what is X is
slightly bigger than 0 right and that's
the idea of the limit so let me write it
down for you guys right here suppose
down to take the limit as X goes to 0
but I don't want X to be negative
neither so let's take a look of the X
approach to 0 from the positive
direction you can think about this right
here as being X equal to zero point zero
zero zero zero one and a plug in that
number into here here it will actually
work in that case anyway this right here
extra X power this in fact it turns out
to be a nice value 1 why because I tell
feed you forget already
be sure to check that out ok so that's
something that we have to keep in mind
as well and so these are the four points
right the four notes that I want to
first now yes this function always
increasing it looks like it when X is
bigger than one but in fact there's
actually a critical number that's not at
one so to do that we actually have to
take that the root of this and instead
equal to zero and find out any potential
minimum or maximum all right so right
here let me just put down this is my
fifth knot right here let's
differentiate that function and when I
do that I will just tell you guys that
hey when we differentiate X to the X
power this right here in fact we'll get
X to the x times one plus lnx right how
do we know because I did a video for you
guys already all right
anyway we differentiated this function
and as usual we are going to set this
equal to zero for any potential critical
numbers right now this right here X to
the X power this is never 0 why because
0 to 0 its undefined all right so that's
pretty much like the best hope that we
have but that's actually not doable so
we just want to set 1 plus Ln X equal to
0 right that's the only spot we have to
worry about and now we can just subtract
1 on both sides the airport ln x equals
to negative 1 and then we can do e to
the power e to the power so x is equal
to e to the negative 1 if you would like
you can write it down as 1 over e so we
know that critical value or critical
point is at x equal to negative 1 right
and now this is the first derivative
test so i will just write it down right
here for you guys we have a number line
like this right
and I don't want this to be zero so let
me just do like this this is the robot
I don't want X to be zero anything
before this where it's bad anyway when
we have one over e let me just say this
right here somewhere
as usual this is the first error of the
test I will use F prime for the notation
okay what we do this we pick a number in
between of 0 and 1 over e into here and
then try to see if it's positive or
negative first derivative right so
perhaps we can pick well let's say I
want to pick 1 over e square somewhere
so which is like this right by the way
one of the eighth grades not halfway of
1 over e but anyway plugging 1 over e
square which is definitely smaller than
1 over e and still positive plug into
here we get this is always past these
totals of matter right this right here
we will end up what you let me just put
down always positive times 1 plus Ln of
1 over e square which is the same as e
to the negative 2 right and now you see
this and now can so this is 1 minus 2
which is sounds impulsive times 1 minus
2 which is negative right so f prime is
going to be negative on interval from 0
to 1 over e and now take your number
that's bigger than 1 over e to the EC
number that's a 1 so let me just choose
that say one right here alright and once
again 1 of course it's not like twice as
big as one of them it just make it right
here okay that's a 1 1 plug into here we
get 1 to the 1 right it's of course
positive and that 1 plus Ln 1 this is
just 1 this is 1 and this is actually 0
so we have 1 so of course this is
positive right anyway so a teacher we
get all the work right here and then
right here we can say that the first
derivative is
positive on Interpol when X is bigger
than one over e so you can stay at one
over e the function before that is going
down because it's negative right because
the first term of this negative and then
after that the first derivative is
positive so the function is going up
when you will have a minimum here right
here right so in fact this relative
minimum happens to be the absolute
minimum as well so I can tell you here
it's the lowest point absolute minimum
at X equal to 1 over E all right and
anything after that of course the
function will just keep going up forever
and now I'm going to erase here I'll
show you guys the final graph so these
are the ideas now we need and of course
it's easy to see when X is approaching
to infinity the function is of course
going to infinity infinity to the
infinity power that's a lot right ok and
finally you can talk about the graph and
of course we'll use all the information
that we have so when X is equal to 0 you
know the function is undefined 0 2
identified right but when you are
pushing to 0 on the right hand side you
know the limited secret one so to show
that on the graph I will just put on
open circle because once again at 0 its
undefined so I will just make sure I
have an open circle and I do have the
function that's approaching to 1 from
the right hand side all right anyway
from 0 to 1 over E the function is
decreasing because the first derivative
is negative so I'll just you know just
draw it down like this and then add 1
over e we have the relative minimum
which is also the absolute minimum ok
and then we pretty much European right
here and then after 1 over e it goes up
and of course what X is exactly equal 1
plug into here 1 to the first power is
of course 1 so be sure you
that point as well right just to make it
nice so it's like this going down and
then going up and in fact this is
crazier that exponential function
because not only the power is getting
bigger and bigger by the pace it's also
getting bigger and bigger as well so
this is how the graph of x to the x
power look like so they mean just read
it down why it's equal to X to the X ok
and I think that's pretty much it but
before we go I wanted to tell you one
over E it's approximately 0.368 all
right and then when you plug in 1 over e
into X to the X power you get this value
here which is this minimum the Y value
is approximately zero point six nine two
all right just some nice touch
anyway that's it
good plan signal here mother price oh my
god oh my god I feel fear he thought
it'd be done
[Music]
you
[Music]
okay in this video we want I'm going to
talk about vertical and horizontal graph
transformations so all of this deals
with is basically just shifting graphs
around okay so the first part we'll do
here we're going to talk about
horizontal transformations and the idea
is if everywhere there's an X in your
formula you replace it with X plus or
minus a number it's going to shift the
graph horizontally if the K values
positive it actually shifts it to the
left if the K value is negative it's
going to shift it to the right that many
units so I don't know sometimes people
feel like this is a little backwards but
you know it's not it's the way it should
be but here's to me a little backwards
in a sense the first time I saw it so
suppose we have the graph y equals x
squared well if I go to graph y equals
the quantity X plus 2 squared notice
what I did was I replaced my original X
with an X plus 2 okay so the plus 2
shifts it not positive 2 units to the
right but instead it shifts it two units
to the left so we're going to get the
same graph again my artistries not the
best so forgive that but it's supposed
to be the exact same graph not not
stretched or anything like that just
pushed a couple units to the left
likewise we can do vertical
transformations and vertical
transformations is pretty much the same
idea on this one we're going to
basically just instead of replacing X
with the number we're just going to add
a number onto the outside so if we add K
to the outside it's going to shift it K
units vertically and here it may be it's
kind of more straightforward if the K
values positive it shifts it upwards so
in the positive direction direction if K
is negative it's going to shift it
downwards so in the negative direction
so again here's y equals x squared
notice here my original x squared was
left to
I just wrote a plus-two on the outside
so again that moves that graph up two
units so let's graph just a couple here
real quick to hopefully make some some
sense out of this stuff let me squeeze
it down here a little bit okay so the
first graphs I'm going to do I'm going
to graph oil a B and C I'm going to
graph 1 over X plus 2 1 over the
quantity X plus 2 and then 1 over the
quantity X plus 2 and then minus 1 so
again so what we're doing here we need
to know the basic graph of 1 over X and
1 over X again roughly looks like the
one here in the top right so that's kind
of my starting point I now need to use
that to come up with the other ones and
1 over X has a vertical asymptote on the
y-axis and it has a horizontal asymptote
along the x-axis so let's keep that in
mind well 1 over X plus 2 all it does is
shift the whole graph up 2 units so my
asymptote that was originally at 0 is
now going to be at the line y equals 2
and again it still has that same basic
shape to it otherwise ok so the plus 2
on the outside simply moves the graph up
2 units ok on Part B I have replaced the
original X with X plus 2 so that's like
our very first example the X plus 2
again is going to shift the graph two
units to the left so that means my
asymptote that was originally at the X
act
excuse me the asymptote but the vertical
asymptote that was the y axis is now
going to be at the line x equals
negative 2
and again otherwise it still has that
same basic shape to it
okay so again forgive my rough artistry
here last but not least if we want to
grab graph one over X plus two minus one
well all that does is it takes our graph
from Part B and it shifts it well down
one unit so we still have the vertical
asymptote at negative two but now my
horizontal asymptote instead of being at
the x-axis is now going to get moved
down to y equals negative one
and again the graph it should be a
little careful so the graph should cross
below would have a negative y intercept
but again otherwise it has that same
basic shape to it okay so kind of a
rough little graph there but hopefully
it's making some sense let me try to do
a couple others here before we run out
of time same idea again so in this case
we've got X cubed minus 1 X minus 1
cubed and then X minus 1 cubed plus 2
again y equals x cubed kind of our
starting point as the graph up here on
the top right it goes through the point
0 0 again part a X cubed minus 1 all
that's going to do to the graph is just
move it down one unit so instead of
going through 0 0 it'll go through 0
negative 1 but then otherwise it should
have that same basic shape to it ok it
looks a little flattened out here so
again I apologize about that it should
be this exact original graph just moved
down 1 unit so try to squeeze it in
there a little bit and it looks kind of
weird
so pump B the X minus 1 cubed ok so now
I replace the X with a negative 1 so
this is a horizontal shift and it shifts
it positive one unit to the right so now
instead of going through 0 0 it'll go
through 1 0
and again still it will have that same
basic shape as X cubed last but not
least if we graph X minus 1 cubed plus 2
okay so all this does is the minus 1
shifts it to the right one unit the plus
2 shifts it up two units so I can
basically just take my Part B graph and
move that up two units so this point
that was originally here at 1 0 is now
going to get moved up to the point 1 2
after I move it to the right 1 and up 2
and then again it still has the same
basic shape to it so all right so I hope
this makes a little bit of sense here so
it's just recognizing again have you
replaced the X with something or have
you just kind of packed a number onto
the outside so maybe one more little
question here so suppose you already
have the graph of x cubed times 3 to the
x over sine X so I'm sure a lot of you
looking at this or you know in algebra
and maybe you've never seen this
function sine of X and this is just a
trigonometric function so if you haven't
seen it don't don't you know get too
nervous - yet the main idea again is
just we're placing we're replacing X's
with what ok so notice ok so I guess I
should ask the follow-up we want to
graph now this new graph X plus 1
squared times 3 to the X plus 1 times
sine of X plus 1 minus 4 we just want to
think what would that look like in terms
of transformations compared to the
original well notice all I did was I
took the original X's everywhere and I
plugged in X plus 1 so everywhere there
was an X I plugged in X plus ones X plus
1 so again what does that X plus 1
effect do
well again the X +1 replaced throwing in
that plus 1 is going to shift the graph
the original it would shift it one unit
to the left and then the minus 4 would
simply shift the original down four
units so if you had that original one
you could come up with this new graph
real easily by just nudging it one unit
to the left and then down four units
okay so I have no clue what this graph
looks like but again I'm just trying to
get the pattern recognition happening so
if you don't know what some basic graphs
look like I have some videos out there
of them I quickly sketch a bunch of them
so feel free to take a look at those if
you have any questions shoot me an email
and hey I hope this helps good luck out
there
today we're going to focus on graphing
linear equations including those with
inequalities quadratic equations we're
going to talk about transformations
graphing radical functions cubic
functions absolute value equations
rational expressions exponential and
even logarithmic equations so let's
begin let's start with the basics let's
say if we want to graph y is equal to 2x
plus 3 now there's many ways to graph it
so the first way we're going to use is
um we're going to make a table let's
keep things simple so let's say if you
have your XY table let's plot some
points so we're going to plot the point
negative 1 0 &amp; 1 we don't really need
that many points
okay so at negative one if we plug in
negative 1 for X so 2 times negative 1
plus 3 that's negative 2 plus 3 that's 1
if you plug in 0 you should get 3 if you
plug in 1 2 plus 3 is 5 and then you
just gotta plot those points so here's a
negative 1 on the x-axis and over here Y
is 1 that's our first point when x is 0
and Y is 3 we have this point here I'm
going to plot another point because my
graph doesn't go up to 5 so I'm going to
plot negative 2 if we plug in negative 2
for X that's 2 times negative 2 that's
negative 4 plus 3 we get negative 1 so
that negative 2 is around somewhere over
here and then you could just connect
those points of line this is just a
rough sketch my graph is not that
perfect but that's the general idea of
how to plot or how to graph a linear
equation using the table you just got to
pick a few points and just plug it in
but now let's see if we can graph
another question just like that but
without I'm making a table let's say if
we have y is equal to negative 2x plus 1
okay this equation is in slope-intercept
form MX plus b b is 1 that's your
y-intercept so that's where your graph
is going to start at 1 M is the slope
the slope is negative 2 which is the
same as negative 2 over 1 this is your
rise and this is the run the rise over
run so every time you move one unit to
the right you need to go down 2 units so
wanting it to the right down to our next
point is over here and if we go one unit
to write down 2 here's our next point
and once you need to write down 2 it's
going to be somewhere over here and then
we just got to connect those points with
a line so that's the slope intercept
method you just plot the y-intercept and
then use the slope to find each
successive going so now I'll try another
example just like that but using
fractions so let's say if you have this
equation y is equal to negative 3/4 X
plus 5
so one two three four five one two three
four let's go up to eight five six seven
eight so the y-intercept is 5 so that's
going to be the first point now the
slope is negative 3 over 4 so negative 3
is the rise and four is the run so we're
going to travel 4 units to the right and
we're going to go down three units so
our next point is over here and then
we're going to do the same thing we're
going to travel 4 units to the right
towards 8 and down 3 so we're going to
be down at negative 1 and then just
connect those points with the line
so go ahead and try this example feel
free to pause the video and give this
problem a shot and when you're ready
just unpause it
okay so let's begin let's begin by
plotting the y-intercept which is at
negative 2 and the slope is 2 over 3 so
our rise is 2 and the run is 3 we're
going to go up 2 units and then over 3
units to the right and then same thing
up 2 over 3 so we got these three points
to plot and then once you feel like you
have enough fluence you really only need
at least two to make a good line once
you have enough points you could just
slot it so that's how you can graph
linear equations in slope intercept form
but now let's talk about how to graph it
when it's in standard form standard form
is ax plus B Y is equal to C so let's
say if we have this equation 2x plus 3y
is equal to 6 now what you want to do is
you want to find the x and y intercepts
so to find the x intercept plug in 0 for
y so this becomes 0 so 2x equals 6 if
you divide both sides by 2 you get x
equals 3 so you get the point 3 comma 0
so that's the x-intercept to find the
y-intercept plug in 0 for X so you get
3y is equal to 6 and if you divide both
sides by 3 y is equal to 2 so your
y-intercept is 0 comma 2 and that's what
we want to do if you have an equation in
standard form and then once you have
those two intercepts just plot those two
points and connect them with a line so 1
2 3 4 1 2 3 4 ok so the first point is
that 0 2 the next one is at 3 0 and then
just connect those two points with a
line that's the simplest way to graph an
equation in standard form so let's try
another example let's say if we have
3x minus 2y is equal to 12 go ahead and
try this and then plot it when you're
ready
so let's find the x-intercept if we plug
in 0 for y the 2y disappears so we're
just going to get 3x is equal to 12 and
if we divide both sides by 4 12 divided
by mu by 3 so I've divided by 3 is 4 so
we get the point 4 comma 0 and for the
y-intercept
we're going to plug in 0 for X so we're
just going to get negative 2y is equal
to 12 and we're going to divide both
sides by negative 2 so we're going to
get Y is equal to negative 6 excuse me
which is the point 0 negative 6 so we
have 0 negative 6 and 4 0 and we're just
going to connect those two points with a
line I don't have a ruler so that's just
my graph won't look perfectly straight
but you get that the point though so now
you know how to plot it in standard form
how would you graph an equation that
looks like this y is equal to 3 how
would you plot that all you got to do if
y equals the number it's just a
horizontal line F 3 that's how you graph
it and if you get a question looks like
this let's say X is equal to 2 it's
simply a vertical line at 2 so it looks
like this
so that's how you can graph a linear
equation if Y or x equals a constant but
now let's talk about graphing
inequalities let's say if you have this
question y is greater than 2x minus 4
and Y is less than or equal to negative
3 over 2x plus 3 by the way if it's in
standard form make sure to convert it to
slope-intercept form which is what we
see here keep in mind slope-intercept
form is like this y equals MX plus B you
want Y to be on one side of the
inequality this is going to make it a
lot easier to graph it
okay so go ahead and plot these
equations in the mean time
so let's plot the first one so the
y-intercept is negative four and the
slope is two so every time we move one
unit to the right where you can go up to
one unit two right up to the slope is
two over one
and notice that Y is greater than 2x
minus 4 but not greater than or equal to
if it's just greater than we need to use
a dashed line
now for this one this is going to be a
solid line because it's less than or
equal to negative 3 over 2 X plus 3 but
for this one make sure you use like a
dashed line so now let's graph the other
equation so the y-intercept is at 3 and
the slope is negative 3 over 2 that
means as you move 2 units to the right
the Run is to the rise is negative 3 so
when you scale down 3 so over 2 down 3
and then over 2 down 3 again and then
over 2 down 3 and it's going to be a
solid line
okay so now we need to know which region
to shade there's four regions in the
graph this is the first one this is the
second one this is the third and this is
the force ignore the X and y-axis look
at the the four regions created by the
green and yellow line when you shade it
it's going to be one of those four
regions so let's focus on this equation
first y is greater than 2x minus 4 so
the Green Line is the 2x minus 4 line
greater than I'm going to shade in white
is anywhere above that line so that
entire region
that's greater than the line then the
green line now for the yellow line y is
less than or equal to so it's below the
yellow line I'm going to shade that in
purple so this is the region below the
yellow line now we need to shade the
region where it's true for both and it's
true in this region here that's where we
have both the purple and the white line
so this is where the answer is on a test
this is the only region you should shade
the other ones erase the marks that you
made and that's how you choose the right
region to shade so let's try another
example let's say if X is greater than
negative 3 y is less than or equal to 5
and Y is greater than X minus 3
so X is that negative 3 that's going to
be a vertical line and it's going to be
a dashed line because it's just greater
than but not equal to and y is less than
5 so that's a horizontal line at 5 but
it's a solid line and Y is greater than
X minus 3 so the slope intercept I mean
the intercept the y intercept is at
negative 3 and there's a 1 in front of X
so the slope is 1 so every time you move
one to the right you go up 1 and it's
going to be a dashed line
now we need to know where to shade it so
let's look at this first equation X is
greater than negative 3 it's greater
than negative 3 to the right anywhere to
the right of this function now Y is less
than 5 is less than 5 below this line
anywhere below this line and Y is also
greater than X minus 3 it's greater than
X minus 3 above this line so we need to
choose the region in which all arrows
are located in if you notice it's true
within this triangle so this is the
region that we shade because all three
equations are true in that region and
that's how you do it ok so now let's
move on to quadratic equations so let's
say if you have this graph y is equal to
x squared plus 2x plus 3 notice that
it's in standard form ax squared plus BX
plus C now for this example we're going
to make a data table we're going to plot
points so if you want to make a data
table you want to find the vertex first
to make your life a lot easier and the
x-coordinate of the vertex is negative B
over 2a that's where the axis of
symmetry is so let's say if you have a
graph that looks like this this equation
will get this x-coordinate and this is
useful because let's say if you plot
this point and you choose this point
they're going to have the same y-value
and these two points will have the same
y-value so if you want five points you
really need to find three and two of
them will be the same as the other two
so a is 1
this is a and B is two so let's use the
equation X is equal to negative B which
is negative 2 over 2 times a or 2 times
1 so the vertex is that x equals
negative 1 now we're going to pick five
points but our center point is going to
be the vertex negative 1 we're going to
pick two points to the right of that
point and two points to the left two
points to the left of negative 1 is
negative 2 and negative 3 and two points
to the right of it is 0 and 1 so now
let's plug in these numbers in let's
start with negative 1 if we plug in
negative 1 for X we get negative 1
squared plus 2 times negative 1 plus 3
so now it's 1 minus 2 plus 3 which is 2
if we plug in let's say 0 for X there's
just going to be 0 squared plus 2 times
0 plus 3 which is just 3 so 0 and
negative 2 are going to have the same y
value because they're equally distant
from the vertex let's plug in 1 it's
easy to plug in 1 then negative 3 so 1
squared plus 2 times 1 plus 3 that's
going to be 6 so negative 2 B also is
going to have the same y value of 6 all
right so let's make our graph
the majority of the graph is at the top
so 1 2 3 4 5 6 and most of our x-values
on the left side so 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 so
the first point is at 0 negative 1 2
which is here that's the vertex next we
have the point 0 3 and a negative 2 3
and then we have 1 comma 6 which is up
here somewhere
and negative 3 comma 6 so now we can
graph it and it's going to look like
this table if I miss this point
so that's a rough sketch the axis of
symmetry is this line right here
it's simply x equals negative 1 is the
x-coordinate of the vertex
so that's the AOS axis of symmetry if
you need to find the minimum value the
minimum value is the y coordinate of the
vertex is right there that's where the
minimum is located let's try another
example like this for the sake of
practice so let's say if we have y is
equal to 2x squared minus 4x plus 1 so
let's find the vertex first its negative
B which is negative negative 4 over 2a a
is 2 so this is a this is B so this is
equal to 1 so let's make our table
and we need two points to the left of
one at 0 and negative one and two points
to the right two and three so let's
begin by plug in 1 for X so 2 times 1
squared minus 4 times 1 plus 1 so this
is 2 minus 4 plus 1 and that's equal to
negative 1
now it's easier if we plug in zero
instead of two so two times zero squared
minus 4 times zero plus one is one
the next point we're going to plug in is
a negative 1 this is also me 1 by the
way so this is negative 1 squared is 1
times 2 negative 4 times negative 1 is 4
so we're going to get 7 for this point
which means this one is also going to be
7 ok so now let's make our graph
so it's going to go up to at least seven
and most of our x-values will be on the
right side so our vertex is that one
negative one which is over here our next
point is that zero one and we have
another one at two comma 1 and then 3
comma 7 which is all the way here and
negative 1 comma 7 which is right where
I put the 7 so then we can graph it
and here is the axis of symmetry it's x
equals the x-coordinate of vertex so
that's how you can plot quadratic
equations and using the table but now
let's say if we don't want to make the
table let's say if you want to graph it
a simpler way so let's say you have y is
equal to x squared minus 2x plus 3 find
the vertex as usual it's negative B over
2a so it's negative negative 2 over 2
times 1 so therefore X is 1 now you want
to find the y-coordinate at that point
so if you plug in 1 for watt for X you
get 1 squared minus 2 times 1 plus 3
that's 4 minus 2 which is 2 so we got
the point 1 comma 2
so our graph is initially right here so
here's what you can do let me show you a
pattern let's say if you plug in 1 for X
you're going to get 1 for y right if you
plug in 2 for X you're going to get 4
for y if you plug in 3 for X you're
going to get 9 for y so once you have
your vertex and this is 1x squared by
the way because if what's 2 x squared
you have to double everything to find
the next point after you have the vertex
move one to the right and then up one
and do the same thing for the left side
one to the left up one because one
squared equals one now
2 squared is 4 so starting from your
vertex as you move to the right go up 4
1 2 3 4 same thing here - to the right
of 4 and that's a quick way you can plot
this equation without needing data table
so now we're going to focus on graphing
these equations but in vertex form so
let's talk about how to convert a
quadratic equation from standard form to
vertex form now there's something called
completing the square so here's what you
need to do you have x squared plus 6x
we're going to focus on that number 6
take half of that number and then square
it half of 6 6 3 and we're going to
square it we still have the minus 3 now
notice that we added 9 to the right side
so we change the equation to balance
that we need to add 9 to the left side
or subtract 9 from the right side since
I don't want to change the left side I'm
just going to put minus 9 on the right
side so if you add 9 and subtract 9 you
haven't changed the value of the
equation imagine if you have a bank
account let's see have a thousand bucks
in your bank account if you add a
hundred and take away 100 it's still the
same so the two equations are equal to
each other but this can be factored if
you factor it here's the shortcut method
it's going to be what you see here X and
whatever this sign is plus whatever this
number is before you square it 3 squared
it's always going to work out that way
and then these two numbers you can
combine so now you have it in vertex
form which is X minus H squared plus K
the vertex is H comma K
so in this form you can easily see what
the vertex is so in our example notice
that H and negative H they have the
opposite sign so you got to switch it
from three to negative three this is H
and K the sign is the same as both
positive so whatever this number is
that's K you don't change it so it's
negative three negative twelve I'm going
to go by twos two four six eight ten
twelve so that's negative twelve two
four six eight and so forth
so we have the point negative three
negative 12 which is somewhere in its
region
and since one squared equals one as you
move one to the right go up one so
that's going to be somewhere over here
at negative two
slash negative eleven one to the right
up one and then as you go to to the
right you need to go up four so from
negative twelve is going to be at
negative eight and then two to the right
up four now if we go three to the right
three squared is nine we need to go up
nine so that will take us to negative 3
and 3 to the right here which will be at
negative 6 with the Y value will also be
at negative 3 if we go 4 to the right 4
squared is 16 so we'll be at the vertex
is at negative 3 so 4 to the right 1 X
will be 1 negative 3 plus 4 is 1 and
negative 12 plus 16 is 4 so we'll be at
1 comma 4 which is somewhere over here
and if we go forward to the left
negative 3 minus 4 that's negative 7 and
the Y value should still be the same it
should be around 4 as well and now we
can graph it
so that's a rough sketch all my sketches
are rough so that's what you can do if
you have an in vertex form let's try
another example so let's say if you have
y is equal to negative X minus 3 squared
plus 4 now this negative sign tells you
that the graph it's going to open
downward
so our vertex change negative 3 to
positive 3 but don't change the 4 that's
our vertex 3 comma 4 so let's plot that
point so here's 3 comma 4 and we're
going to need more points on the right
side now we know the graph is going down
so as we move we run to the right it's
going to go down 1 and once the left
down 1/2 to the right it's going to go
down 4 from starting from the vertex so
it's going to be at 0 on the x-axis 2 to
the left is also going to be done for
now if we go 3 to the right from the
vertex which will be over here we need
to go down 9 so we should be at negative
5 which is over here
and if we go three to the right we'll be
at the the y-axis and we'll be down five
as well
so this graph looks something like this
and that's how you graph it
now what about this one let's say
there's a 2 in front of the parentheses
so how does it modify our process so the
vertex we know it's negative 1 you
change the plus 1 to minus 1 comma
negative 2 this is going to say K is
going to be the same my lines are never
straight
so notice that it's positive - so that
means the graph is going to open upward
so let's plot the vertex
so it's at negative 1 comma negative 2
which is over here somewhere now we
won't be moving one to the right and up
1 because our parent function is y
equals 2x squared there's a 2 in front
so if you plug in 1 for X you're going
to get 2 for y if you plug in 2 for X
you get a fly so as we move one to the
right so I have to go up one it's going
to go up 2 because it's going to be
times 2 so one to the right up to that
should be over here somewhere one to the
left up to start from the vertex as we
go 2 to the right we need to go up 8
instead of 4 2 squared is 4 but we got
to multiply by 2 so if we go up 8 we
should be at 6 from negative 2 and 2 to
the left when you scale up 8 as well
it's going to be at the same point and
so that's how you graph it
you
and the axis of symmetry if you have to
find it it's x equals this value
negative one so here's the line of
symmetry it's symmetric about that line
and this graph has a minimum whenever
you have a positive number here the
graph always has a minimum and the
minimum value is simply the y coordinate
of the vertex is negative 2 when it
opens downward let's say if you have
negative x squared then you have a
maximum 2 sometimes you may find make it
like word problems where they ask you
what is the maximum value of this
function just find the vertex and look
for the Y value so that's it for
quadratic equations now let's move on to
absolute value functions the absolute
value of X looks like this it's a
v-shape and it has a slope of 1
so let's say if we want to graph the
absolute value of X minus 3 plus 4 first
need to find the vertex so we need to
move 3 to the right because we have a
minus 3 on the inside and up 4 kind of
like the last problem the vertex is 3
comma 4 you change what's on the inside
but you don't change what's on the
outside now the slope is 1 for this
problem so as you move one to the right
you need to go up 1 1 to the left of 1
it's symmetrical just like the quadratic
function but notice that it's y equals x
rather than y equals x squared so when X
is 1 Y is 1 when X is 2 y is 2 so the
slope is going to be 1 and then just
keep moving one to the right and up one
and then just plot the graph so that's
how you can graph absolute value
functions but now let's say if we have y
is equal to negative 2x plus 1 minus 3
now the fact that it's negative on the
outside means that it's going to open
downward instead of upward and the fact
that we see a 2 the slope is now 2
instead of 1 so as we move one to the
right is going to go down 2 and it's
going to the slope is constant it's
going to always be 2
so first let's plot the vertex which is
negative one negative three
so it's over here somewhere negative 1
negative 3 and we said that's going to
go downward so as we move one to the
right it's going to go down to let me
use a different color and one to the
left and down to and one more time one
to the right down to run to the left
down to so it's going to look something
like this so that's how you can graph
absolute value functions so let's move
on to cubic functions let's say if you
have Y is equal to X cubed the parent
function for this graph looks something
like this that's just sort of rough
sketch so let's say if you want to graph
this equation
the center point or the worthy where it
should be the origin it's at a 1 comma 2
you change the negative one but not the
two so the shift in moves one to the
right and it moves up to what you see on
the inside is the horizontal shift which
is one to the right this is the vertical
shift it's up to so the origin is now at
1 comma 2 now we can draw a rough sketch
if you want we can do something like if
we want to but let's actually get point
to make this graph for more accurate so
our parent function is y equals x cubed
1 to the third is 1 2 to the third is 8
so to get the first two points as you
move one to the right um go up one one
to the left go down one and now if you
move to to the right you need to go up
eight and we really don't have the space
for that but it's probably going to be
somewhere over here and if we move to
the left we need to go down 8 now this
we can plot because that's somewhere
that's going to get negative six so down
eight will be all the way over here so
now we can get a more accurate sketch
so it's going to look something like
that so let's try one more example with
cubic functions so let's say if you have
y equals instead of putting negative two
I'm going to put negative 1/2 because I
don't want to go up 16 let's say if we
have this and it's minus 1 we know the
center is going to be at negative 3
negative 1 so it's going to shift three
units to the left and down one
so it's at negative three negative one
which is in this area and let's say if
we move one unit to the right well by
the way notice that it's negative
positive X cube looks like this negative
x cube looks like that so we have a
decrease in function rather than an
increase in function so as we move one
to the right one this is supposed to be
cubed by the way 1 to the third is one
but we got a half so we should move down
a half so one to the right I'm just
going to go down a half because of this
number one to the left is going to go up
a half now 2 to the third is 8 what
times 1/2 is 4 so as we move 2 to the
right it's going to go down 4 so from
negative 1 to negative 5 and as we move
to to the left this point should be
actually here let me fix that once to
the left should have been up 1/2 2 to
the right that's down 4 so it's over
here at negative 5 and 2 to the left we
need to go up 5 I mean up 4 so 1 2 3 4
it should be over here somewhere so now
let's see if we can make our graph
so we have to be the function has to be
decreased instead of increasing only
because of the negative sign so that's a
rough sketch for that graph so now let's
go over radical functions let's say if
we have this function of square root of
x the parent function for that looks
like this and if you have let's say
negative square root X the negative in
front causes it to flip over the x-axis
or it's a reflection across the x-axis
so it looks like this and let's say if
you have a negative on the inside
it reflects across the y-axis so it
looks like that and if you have a
negative both on the inside and on the
outside
it reflects across the origin so it
looks like this the way I like to see
this let's say if here X is positive and
Y is positive so x and y are positive in
quadrant one so it goes towards quadrant
one here X is positive but Y is negative
so that's quadrant four X is positive as
you go to the right but Y is negative as
you go down here X is negative Y is
positive that's quadrant two and when x
and y are both negative its quadrant
three that's a an easy technique you can
use that to see where the graph is going
to go for radical X but now let's apply
it in a problem so let's start with a
straightforward one let's say if we have
y is equal to the square root of x plus
three minus two so the origin it's
shifted 3 to the left and down to so
it's going to start over here now the
parent function is the square root of x
the square root of 1 is 1 and the square
root of 4 is 2 and the square root of 9
is 3 so as we move one to the right go
up one
as you move for to the right go up to so
that's going to be somewhere over here
and as you move nine to the right from
your original point and go up three so
right now we're at negative three if we
move nine to the right we should be at
positive 6 and going up three we need to
be at y equals one so and that's our
graph it starts from here now one thing
I should have mentioned is domain and
range what is the domain for this
function and what's the range the domain
is the X values the ranges the Y values
if you want to find the domain analyze
it from left to right so it starts at
the lowest x value is that negative
three there's nothing before that and
the highest x value it goes to infinity
so your domain is from negative 3 to
infinity and it includes negative 3 the
range is the Y values the lowest Y value
is that negative 2 which is that number
and this arrow it keeps going up but it
goes up slowly and slowly but it goes up
to infinity so the range is from
negative 2 to infinity
now just to review for linear equations
like let's say Y is equal to 2x plus 3
I'm just going to draw a rough sketch so
it starts at 3 for slope of 2 let's say
it looks like this the domain for a
linear function is just negative
infinity to infinity the range is the
same thing now the next one that we
considered was a quadratic function
let's say if you have 3 plus x squared
the graph is going to start after me and
it's going to open upward it's been
shifted three units up so the domain for
any quadratic function the X could be
anything it's always going to be
negative infinity to infinity however
the range will change
notice that the lowest Y value is three
but it goes up to infinity so the range
is from three to infinity now if you
have a downward parabola let's say like
Y is equal to five minus x squared your
graph is going to start at five and it's
going to open downward it's been shifted
up five units so your domain for any
quadratic function where you have x
squared as Y or your highest degree it's
always going to be negative infinity to
infinity the range though is from let's
see your lowest Y value is negative
infinity because these arrows will go
all the way down your highest y-value is
at five so from low to high negative
infinity to 5 it stops at 5 so for your
domain you looking at it from left to
right from the range you're looking at
it from low to high or bottom to top now
the next thing that we considered was an
absolute value function so let's say if
you have 2x minus 3 plus 1 so the graph
shifts 3 units to the right up and when
it starts here and the slope is 2 so I'm
just going to draw a rough sketch your
domain for any absolute value functions
is negative infinity to infinity unless
you have like a piecewise function your
range notice that your lowest Y value is
1 but it goes up to infinity so it's
from 1 to infinity and let's say if it
opens downward let's say you have 3
minus absolute value of x plus 2 so it
shifts two units to the left and it's
shifted up three units so it starts here
but there's a negative in front of the
absolute value so it goes like this it
goes downward with a slope of 1
so your domain is everything for this
function as well but the range the
highest value is 3 the lowest value is
negative infinity search that's from low
to high negative infinity and the stop
sign 3 now for cubic functions let's say
if we have X minus 1 cubed plus 2 as you
move one to the right it's going to be
shifted up 2 and there's no number in
front of in front of here so it's just a
1 and because it's positive it's going
to be increasing rather than decreasing
so it's going to look something like
this for this type of function your
domain is also everything there's no
restrictions on X your range is also
everything as well it goes down to
negative infinity and up to infinity so
for any cubic function domain and range
is just our row numbers so now let's go
back to radical functions let's look at
our next example let's safely have the
square root of 5 minus 2 minus X so the
first thing when a plot is where the
first point
so if you set the inside equal to zero
to minus x is equal to zero you're going
to get X is equal to two so it shifts
two units to the right and it shifts up
five units so it starts somewhere here
the question is what direction is going
to go is there going to go towards
quadrant one towards quadrant two
towards quadrant three or towards
quadrant four because knowing the
direction is important because we need
that if we don't want to make a table so
notice that we have a negative in front
of the radical and a negative in front
of X do you see that so X is negative
and Y is negative x and y are negative
and what quadrant has to be quadrant
three so it's going to be going in this
general direction so now we don't have a
number in front of the radical so we can
use our general transformation the
square root of one is one the square
root of 4 is 2 and the square root of
nine is three so as we go one unit to
the left it's going to go down one and
as we this is X this is y so as we
travel four units to the left it's going
to go down to so it's going to be over
here and as we travel nine units to the
left starting from this point it's going
to go down three so it's going to be
over here now for this if you prefer you
can always make a table so I'm going to
do one example by making the table so
you can see which points to choose and
there is the graph right there so let's
say if you have y is equal to the square
root of x plus 1 minus 3 and you want to
make a table
the first point you want to plug in is
negative one and it's going to be
negative 3 that's the because that's the
ship it'll shift someone to the left and
down 3 now from that point let me just
put this number here you want to go one
to the right so let's plug in 0 if you
plug in 0 for X the square root of 1 is
1 and 1 minus 3 is negative 2 now your
next point you don't want to plug in 1 2
3 &amp; 4 you want to plug in numbers that
are perfect squares because you can
square root it the reason why I plug in
0 is because I can square root 1 the
next number I'm going to choose this 3
because 3 plus 1 is 4 and the square
root of 4 is 2 2 minus 3 is a negative 1
now the next point I'm going to plug in
is 8 because 8 plus 1 is 9 the square
root of 9 is 3 and 3 minus 3 is 0 if I
want another point I'm going to plug in
15 because 15 plus 1 is a perfect square
of 16 the square root of 16 is 4 4 minus
3 is 1 so you want to plug in numbers
that are perfect squares where the
radical would simplify to an integer and
that's going to make a life easier
and basically the way I was plotting
points for these other functions is
based on this pattern of numbers so let
me show you so we know it shifts one to
the left down three so this point is
this one negative 1 negative 3 and 4
radical X radical 1 is 1 so as we move
one to the right it's going to go up 1
notice that we have the point 0 negative
2 and the square root of 4 is 2 so start
from this point if we move forth to the
right which will put us out to be it's
going to go up 2 so notice we have this
point 3 negative 1 and then the square
root of 9 is 3 so as we go 3 to the
right
so one two three four five six seven
eight nine we're going to go up to B so
it's going to be over here which is a
comma zero so notice this technique
gives you the points without actually
making the table and if you can master
this technique you can graph equations
at a very fast rate so our graph looks
like this now keep in mind let's say if
we put a 2 in front everything is going
to double so instead of going as you go
months to the right you're going to go
up 2 instead of up one as you go four to
the right you're going to go instead of
up - you need to go up four which is
somewhere over here and as you go nine
to the right instead of going up three
you need to go up six which will be
somewhere over here so your graph will
look something like this
if it was y equals to square root x + 1
- 3 so the amount that you increase in
your Y values just double it that's it
if there's a 2 in front if there's a 3
just triple it so like if we use this
pattern here let's save those will - it
would be - square root of 1 which is 2
if we plug in a 4 it's going to be 4
if we plug in nine it's going to be six
square root of nine is three times two
is six so these numbers the amount that
we increase the Y values will simply
double okay so now let's move on to a
different type of radical a radical with
an odd root instead of an even root the
square root of x what we considered was
this one there's a invisible two that
you don't see so if it's even it looks
like this but when it's odd it looks
like this instead so negative cube root
of x is going to look like this by the
way keep in mind this is the same as
cube root of negative x so even if you
reflect it across the x-axis or across
the y-axis it's going to be the same
because this graph is symmetrical about
the origin so there's only two ways you
can graph cube root of x this way if
it's positive or this way if there's at
least one negative if there's two
negatives they can cancel and it's going
to be the same as this one if you have a
negative on the inside and on the
outside but now that we know what the
parent function looks like let's try
some problems so let's say if you want
to graph the cube root of x plus 1 plus
2 so first you want to find out where
the graph begins
so it shifts one to the left and up two
so it's over here
now let's look at our pattern of numbers
that we're going to use to plot this
equation so the cube root of 1 is 1 so
as we move one to the right it's going
to go up 1 and the cube root of 8 is 2
so as we move 8 to the right it's going
to go up 2 so one to the right up one
one to the left
download because you know the general
shape is like this it's increasing now
as we go 8 to the right so starting from
negative 1 we're going to stop at 7 it's
going to be up to so it's going to be
over here somewhere and as we go 8 to
the left it's going to take us to
negative 9 so it's going to go down 2 so
it's going to be over here somewhere and
so now we can just plot it so it looks
something like that
so that's how you can graph cube root
functions now let's say if you have 1
over X the parent function for one of X
looks like this and if you have negative
1 over X
it looks like this it reflects over the
Y or the x-axis doesn't matter be the
same so let's try some problems let's
say if we wish to graph 1 over X minus 2
so we have the general shape but you
want to plot the vertical asymptotes the
vertical asymptote is when the
denominator is equal to zero so if you
set the bottom equal to 0 you get x
equals 2 that's the VA the vertical
asymptote
now there's also a horizontal asymptote
which is y equals zero which is over
here whenever the degree of the
denominator is greater than the degree
of the numerator the horizontal
asymptote is at y equals zero now if you
want to get points for this graph
there's really only one point you need
but let's make a table I would plug in 3
for X because 3 minus 2 is 1 1 over 1 is
1 so after me it should be at 1 the next
point I would plug in would be something
to the left of 2 let's say like 1 if you
plug in 1 you're going to get negative 1
so it should be somewhere over here so
then our graph it starts from the
asymptotes and then it connects to this
point and then it follows the horizontal
asymptote so it looks something like
that you can add more points if you want
in this graph looks like that
so that's how to graph 1 over X minus 2
so let's say if we have y is equal to 1
over X plus 3 plus 4 the vertical
asymptote is at x equals negative 3
based on in this term here if we set
equal to 0 now the horizontal asymptotes
for this fraction is 0 because it's
bottom-heavy the degree of dignity
denominator is higher than that of the
numerator but it's 0 Plus this number 4
so it's actually y equals 4 it's been
shifted up 4 units
so let's make our graph so the vertical
asymptote is at negative 3
and a horizontal asymptote at 4
and let's plug in some points so I'm
going to plug in one point to the right
of negative three so that's going to be
negative two and one point to the left
of negative 3 that's negative 4 if I
plug in negative 2 negative 2 plus 3 is
1 1 over 1 is 1 if I plug in negative 4
negative 4 plus 3 is negative 1 and so I
got those points so negative 4 negative
1 it's around here and negative 2 you
know I forgot to add 4 to each number so
the Y value should be 3 and the Y value
here should be 5 can't forget this 4 but
I plotted at the right point for some
reason and negative 2 it should be at 5
so somewhere over here now we can make
our graph so this one's going to look
something like this
and this graph is going to look
something like that as you can see it's
been shifted left 3 up 4 now let's say
if we have a negative value let's say Y
is equal to negative 1 over X minus 1
plus 2 so the vertical asymptote if you
set x -1 equal to 0 X equal to 1 the
horizontal asymptote is going to be y
equals 2 based on this number
so here's the horizontal asymptote and
the vertical asymptote is that one now
notice that we have a negative sign so
instead of the graph looking like this
it's going to be like this instead so
let's plug in points let's make a let's
make a table so I'm going to plug in 2
for X and 0 for X 2 minus 1 is 1 but
times negative 1 divided by 1 is
negative 1 plus 2 so that's 1 if we plug
in 0 it's going to be negative 1 over
negative 1 plus 2 and we're going to get
3 if we plug in 0 for X so we have the
point 2 comma 1 which is over here and 0
comma 3 which is here and so this graph
is going to look like this and this
one's going to look like that so now you
know how to graph parent functions one
of X functions now let's say if you have
1 over x squared it's very similar to 1
over X but both curves are above the
x-axis if you have negative 1 over x
squared it's going to be below the x
axis it's going to look like this so
this graph is symmetrical about the
y-axis the other one 1 over x was
symmetric around the origin so let's try
one example let's say if we have
negative 1 over X minus 2 squared plus 3
the vertical asymptote you set the
bottom equal to 0 you're going to get x
equals 2 the horizontal asymptote it's
simply y equals 3
so for these types of rational functions
always plot the asymptotes first
so let's make a table I'm going to plug
in 1 for X and 3 1 units the left and 1
unit to the right so if I plug in 3 3
minus 2 is 1 1 squared is 1 negative 1
over 1 is negative 1 plus 3 that's 2 if
I plug in 1 1 minus 2 is negative 1 but
if you square it it becomes positive 1
negative 1 over 1 is negative 1 plus 3
is 2 notice that they have the same
y-value which means they're symmetric
around about the the y axis but in this
case it's going to be symmetric about
the vertical asymptote because it's been
shifted two units to the right so if we
plot 1/2 that's over here I mean that's
2 recompensed room that 1/2 1/2 is over
here but we can see the symmetry around
the vertical asymptote so it looks like
that
so let's go over some different types of
rational functions let's say if you have
x squared plus 5x plus 6 divided by x
squared plus X minus 2 now this function
might seem complicated but it's not
really we've pretty much covered this
material what you should do is you
should factor everything so to factor x
squared plus 5x plus 6 think of two
numbers that multiply to 6 but add to
the middle term 5 2 times 3 is 6 2 plus
3 is 5 so it's going to be X plus 2
times X plus 3 so factor on this one
look for two numbers that multiply to
negative 2 would add to 1 so that's
positive 2 and negative 1 2 plus
negative 1 is 1 so it's X plus 2 X minus
1 notice that the x mark plus 2 is
canceled so if you set X plus 2 equal to
0 x equals negative 2 is a hole the
vertical asymptote is based on this one
because the X minus 1 couldn't be
canceled so x equals 1 is the vertical
asymptote now you might be wondering
what is the horizontal asymptote now
notice that the degree of the
denominator is 2 and the degree of the
numerator is 2 as well when it was
bottom-heavy when a degree of the
denominator was higher than that of the
numerator like 1 over X or 1 over x
squared
the horizontal asymptote was y equals 0
plus if there was a constant here it was
plus 3 then add 3 but we don't have that
3 there so whenever the degree is the
same divide the coefficient so 1 divided
by 1 is 1 so the horizontal asymptote is
y equals 1 for this problem
so now let's graph it
so first let's plot the vertical
asymptote at one
next let's plot the horizontal asymptote
at one
so now at this point we know the graph
is going to look like 1 over X it's
going to be very similar to it so we
just need a few points one point I would
plug in is the hole negative 2 because
that's important if we plug in negative
2 we just need to plug it into the
surviving equation so it's a negative 2
plus 3 negative 2 minus 1 negative 2
plus 3 is 1 and negative 2 minus 3 is
negative 3 so we get the point negative
1/3 I would also plug in one number to
the right of the vertical asymptote as
we did before like 2 let's see if I can
fit it here 2 plus 3 is 5
and 2 minus 1 is 1 so we just get 5 and
plug in 1 number to the left of it so
let's say 0 0 plus 3 is 3 and 0 minus 1
is negative 1 so we get negative 3
so negative 2 comma negative 1/3 is
somewhere over here and 2 comma 5 is up
here somewhere and 0 negative 3 is down
here so we can see how this graph is
going to look like
it starts from 1 Assam so it connects to
these points and it follows the other
one however we did say this is a hole so
this should be an open circle I know
drew a closed circle but ignore the
yellow point it should be a hole there
now for the other one we know what the
general shape is going to be it's going
to look something like this you can add
more points if you want but that's a
rough sketch of the graph
so let's try another function let's say
if we have y equals x squared plus let's
make that out 8x squared divided by 4
minus 2 x squared plus 1 so let's take
out a 2 from the bottom
and notice that it's going to be two
minus x squared now we're going to set
that part equal to zero and we're going
to solve for X so X is equal to plus or
minus radical two so we have two
vertical asymptotes in this problem now
to find the horizontal asymptote notice
that the degree of the numerator which
is x squared is the same as that of
digital via so what we're going to do is
divide the coefficients eight divided by
negative two so the horizontal asymptote
is at negative four but we have a
constant in front so shifted up one so
negative four plus one so it's at
negative three so now we have the
vertical asymptote and the horizontal
asymptote
the square root of 2 is about 1.4 so the
vertical asymptote is somewhere between
1 and 2 and we have another one at
negative 1 point 4 and the horizontal
asymptote it's at negative 3
now we know how the graph is going to
look like on the right side on the left
side it can be like this or it can be
like that it can be like this or it can
be like this in the middle a lot of
things could happen you can get
something like this you may get a curve
that looks like this or sometimes they
can even cross the horizontal asymptote
so for the middle we got a plug in point
to find out what's going to happen so
let's make our table for this one I
would definitely use a table let's plug
in one point to the left of radical two
so let's plug in positive two for X so
that's going to be six well 2 squared is
4 8 times 4 is 32 and let's see on the
bottom we have 4 minus 2 times 2 squared
so that's like 4 minus 8 which is
negative 4 and so we should get negative
8 so 2 comma negative 8 so it's like all
the way over here all we need is one
point in this region so we know the
graph looks something like this in this
area so let's plug in another point
let's say like a negative 2 and notice
that it's squared so regardless if we
plug in 2 or negative 2 the Y values can
be the same so because it's both squared
is going to be symmetric or symmetrical
so a negative 2 is going to be like
negative 8 again so this is going to be
the same so the fact that it's
symmetrical means that we're probably
going to have something like this or
something like this
so let's plug in zero first if we plug
in zero for X everything is zero so it's
over here let's say if we plug in 1 and
one a negative one is going to be the
same if we plug in one it's going to be
8 over 4 minus 2 so that's 8 over 2
which is 4 so that's like over here
somewhere so we can see what's happening
this graph is going to look something
like this at the center so between two
vertical asymptotes you can't be certain
what's going to happen but if you see
that both of these terms are even like
it has an even exponent you know that is
going to be some sort of symmetry it can
be like this or it can be like that if
it was odd it could be like this at the
center between the two vertical
asymptotes or it could be like that you
just got a plug in points to find out
for sure so that's it for that
particular function now this one more
thing we got to mention and that's
rational functions involving a slant or
an oblique asymptote
so notice that's a degree of the
numerator which is 2 is greater than
that than the degree of the denominator
which is 1 when the numerator has when a
numerator is one degree higher than the
denominator you're going to have a
slight asymptote now what we should do
first is we should factor everything
before we begin if we multiply these two
numbers two times five is ten and two
numbers that multiply to positive ten
but add to negative three doesn't happen
it doesn't work because two times five
will add up to seven negative two and
negative five will add up to negative
seven so we can't factor the numerator
if we could we should we know the
vertical asymptote is going to be x
equals two now whenever the numerator is
higher than the denominator there is no
horizontal asymptotes but we do have a
slant so we need to do long division to
find a slant asymptote but we don't have
to complete the entire long division
process there's a certain point where we
can stop where it would suffice and we
can have the answer two x squared
divided by X is two x after you divide
multiply two x times X is 2x squared + 2
x times negative 2 is negative 4x so
let's subtract so here we get 0 negative
3x minus negative 4x which is like plus
4x you get X and bring down to 5x
divided by X is 1 once you get this
constant here that one you can stop so
the slant asymptote is 2x plus 1 so now
we can graph it
so at 2:00 we have the vertical
asymptote and to plot the slant
asymptote notice that we have a linear
equation in slope intercept form which
we covet at the beginning of this video
so we're going to plot the y-intercept
which is 1 and the slope is 2 because
it's a 2 in front of X excuse me
so that's move one to the right go up 2
and as you move one to the right go up 2
as well and then we're going to plot it
with a dashed line now these two
asymptotes separate the graph into 4
regions so we can have a graph that
looks like this it can look like that it
can be over here or it could be here
it's going to be in 2 out of those 4
regions and the only way to find out
which region it's going to be is to plug
in points we only really need to plug in
two points one point to the right of the
vertical asymptote and one point to the
left so let's say if we plug in 3 for X
2 times 3 squared 3 squared is 9 times 2
is 18 negative 3 times 3 is negative 9
plus 5 so that's 9 plus 5 that's 14 on
top 3 minus 2 is 1 so we get 14 so at 3
it's clearly above the it's way above
the slant asymptote it's all the way up
14 which our graph doesn't go that high
so we're going to say it's in this
region somewhere we don't have enough
space to plot it usually if it's in that
region then chances are it's going to be
in this region but let's find out for
sure so let's plug in number less than 2
let's plug in 1 so 2 times 1 squared is
2 minus 3 times 1 which is 3 plus 5 over
1 minus 2 so that's negative 1 plus 5
that's 4 over negative 1 so it's
negative 4 so at 1 it's at negative 4 so
it is in this region
let's go ahead and plug in zero two
because zero is an easy number to plug
in it's going to be five over negative
two which is like negative two point
five just to make this graph a little
bit more accurate so our graph is going
to look something like this now the more
points you add the more accurate your
sketch will be but it's up to you how
many points you wish to add but usually
on on a test you might get a
multiple-choice question and all you
need is one point to the left and one
points to the right of the vertical
asymptote and you can limonade the wrong
answers to get the right answer or you
could just use a graphing calculator so
now we're going to focus on graphing
exponential equations so let's say if we
have y is equal to 2x plus 3 minus 1 now
what you want to do is set the exponent
equals two numbers zero and one so if
you solve for X you get negative three
and negative two these are the points
that you should plug in into your X&amp;Y
table which I would recommend for this
type of problem so if you plug in
negative 3 for X negative 3 plus 3 is 0
2 raise to 0 is 1 anything raised to the
0 power is 1 and then 1 minus 1 is 0 if
you plug in negative 2 for X negative 2
plus 3 is 1 and 2 to the 1 is 2 2 minus
1 is 1
now this number that you see here this
is the horizontal asymptote before an
exponential function so we're going to
plot that so we have it at negative 1
and there's no vertical asymptotes for
exponential functions your next thing
after you plot the horizontal asymptote
plot your two points negative 3 0 and
negative 2 1 so the graph it starts from
the horizontal asymptote and it follows
those two points and that's how you can
graph it you can add more points if you
want but I think that sketch is good
enough so let's try another one so let's
say if we have Y is equal to 2 minus 3
raised to the X plus 1 so set the X for
X plus 1 equal to 0 and 1 and solve for
X so X is equal to negative 1 and X is
equal to 0 and then make your table so
we're going to plug in negative 1 and 0
for X if we plug in negative 1 negative
1 plus 1 is 0 and 3 to the 0 is 1 2
minus 1 is 1 if we plug in 0 0 plus 1 is
1 2 e to the 0 I mean 3 to 1 is 3 so we
have 2 minus 3 which is negative 1 this
number is the horizontal asymptote is
the number is that it's the constant it
doesn't have an X
so the horizontal asymptote this time is
that two and if we plot our points
negative one comma one and zero negative
one so start from the horizontal
asymptote and connect the two points so
that's how you can graph that particular
exponential equation so the last thing
we're going to look at is graph in
logarithmic equations so let's say if
you have log base 2 X plus 1 minus 3 so
accidential functions are like they're
like the opposite of logarithmic
functions exponential functions have
horizontal asymptotes logarithmic
functions have vertical asymptotes now
what you want to do is you want to set
the inside part of the log function
equal to 3 things rather than two things
set it equal to zero which will give you
the vertical asymptote always set it
equal to one and set it equal to
whatever this number is the base so the
first one we get X is equal to negative
1 that's the vertical asymptote the next
point we get zero and here we get one so
let's make our table with these two
points 0 &amp; 1 if you plug in 0 for X you
get 0 plus 1 log of 1 regardless of what
the base is is always 0 so you have 0
minus 3 it's negative 3 if we plug in 1
1 plus 1 is 2 so we have log base 2 of 2
the 2's cancel and give you 1 and 1
minus 3 is negative 2 so that's why I
chose those numbers because you get a
nice whole number of integers to deal
with which makes the easier to graph so
the first thing you want to do is unplug
asymptotes which is that negative 1
and then plug in your points so we have
our first point at zero negative three
which is over here and then one negative
two so start from the vertical asymptote
and then follow the two points and
that's how you graph it let's try our
final example so let's say Y is equal to
two minus log base three X minus one so
set the inside equal to zero one and the
base in this case which is three so the
vertical asymptote is X is equal to one
and our other points are two and four so
let's make our table so if we plug in 2
for X it's 2 minus 1 which is 1 log of 1
is 0 so 2 minus 0 is 2 if we plug in 4 4
minus 1 is 3 log base 3 of 3 is 1 and so
2 minus 1 is 1
so our vertical asymptote is that one
and we have the point 2 comma 2 which is
over here and the next one is 4 comma 1
so the graph has to start this way if
it's going to connect to those two
points and that's how you plot it so
that's it for this video now you know
how to graph almost any equation there's
other equations too but for the most
part we covered the most common
equations that you'll see throughout
your algebra trigonometry precalculus
and calculus course so if you've seen
any new equations that you have to graph
you can apply the principles that you've
learned in this video to those equations
as well so that's it and thanks for
watching this video and have a great day
given the graph find the slope to find a
slope we must understand that a slope of
a line is defined as rise over run rise
is the vertical direction of the line
and run is the horizontal direction of a
line so to start I'm going to pick two
points on this line so I'm picking a
point here and a point here now I'm
going to travel from left to right I'm
going to find the vertical direction the
rise from this point to this point and
in this case to get from this point to
this point I have to go down five so I'm
going to write negative five now I'm
going to find the horizontal direction
so from this point to this point I have
to travel to the right about six times
now I'm going to substitute in these
numbers into my rise over run my rise
would be negative five since I'm going
down fine and my run will be positive
six since I'm going to the right six so
my slope is negative five over six
simplifying it further I get a slope of
negative then five over six and this
completes my problem
you
okay in this video we're not going to do
anything too fancy I'm just going to
more than anything just try to provide a
quick little reference on some basic
graphs that I think are useful to know
in algebra okay
so we'll step through these here pretty
quickly I'm not going to go real
in-depth into any of them the first one
you should recognize is anything of the
form y equals MX plus B and again this
is just going to be a linear function
and of course any linear function if you
graph it is going to look just like a
straight line
okay so again M represents the slope B
represents the y-intercept so if you
have an equation with the form y equals
MX plus B that's just going to be the
graph of simply a straight line okay so
let's do here's number one down again
not going real in-depth into any of
these remember the graph of something
well y equals x squared this is just
going to be a parabola so there's the
graph of y equals x squared again to
start familiar parabola shape
okay notice two if you plug one in for x
you get one out for y excuse me negative
one there likewise if you plug one in
for x you get positive one out for Y if
you graph a function actually that's any
even power it's going to look very
similar to this graph except it'll get a
little it'll be a little flatter between
zero and one but then it'll get steeper
after that so for example this could be
the graph of y equals x to the fourth
again it's got that parabola shape
that's supposed to have that kind of U
shape to it the higher the power is
again if it's an even power it'll be
flattened out more so between zero and
one but then it'll be steeper okay
likewise if you graph say an odd power
of X x cubed x to the third x to the
fifth X to the seventh they're all going
to have the basic shape of a graph like
this so here's the graph for example y
equals x to the third likewise if we
graph say for example y equals x to the
fifth again notice that both of these
this graph will go through one one and
also negative one negative one if the
power is higher it's going to do the
same thing it's going to be a little
flatter but then it will become steeper
after that okay so again a very obvious
rough graph of y equals x to the fifth
so I just want to put a couple other
ones up here real quick again just as a
quick refresher more than anything on
these remember if you graph y equals
absolute value of x the graph of
absolute value of x is simply going to
be that v-shape graph so y equals
absolute value of x
we'll be our familiar v-shaped graph if
we graph say y equals square root of x
and obviously this isn't you know every
graph that you would ever need to know
but just again a few just a little
refresher on some very common ones y
equals square root of x is that curvy
function okay
keeps increasing as you move to the
right but it'll get start moving a
little bit slower and then just two
other ones here real quick
some of them are so important in algebra
to your exponential functions and graph
well terrific logarithm functions so
actually maybe I'll throw those on here
real quick to the graph of y equals 1
over X that graph will get closer to the
y-axis but never touch it likewise it
will get closer to the x-axis but never
touch it okay and then it will go down
and it will basically just be kind of a
reflection of that graph so there's y
equals 1 over X and likewise if we were
to graph y equals 1 over say x squared
the top right half will look very
similar we'll still get this very
similar it will get close to the y-axis
and also get close to the x-axis but
then it's the exact same thing basically
if you reflect it about the y axis okay
so that will be the graph of y equals 1
over x squared and again just as a
reminder of the other two here you
squeeze them in here
so if you have the graph of log will say
base B of X and we're going to just
restrict ourselves to the case for the
base B is bigger than one a basic
logarithm will go through the point 1 0
and it gets closer to the y-axis as well
but doesn't touch it and then it sort of
looks like you know the top part of the
square root function it's you know
obviously not a square root function but
it'll increase very slowly as you move
out so there's the graph of a basic
logarithm last but not least maybe we
can squeeze in our exponential functions
so remember an exponential function is
of the form y equals a to the X if the
base a is bigger than 1 the function
will increase as you move left to right
so there's our basic exponential again
if our base is bigger than 1 if we graph
the exponential function y equals a to
the X where the base a is between 0 and
1 it'll basically it'll just be a
reflection about the y axis of this
graph and instead of getting bigger as
you move left to right it'll actually
get smaller as you move left to right
okay so again a very rough rough rough
hopefully reminder on some basic shapes
of some graphs I always encourage of my
calculus or excuse me
my well my calculus students to algebra
students as well to no pictures of
graphs so to use an about an old pun or
an old saying rather you know pictures
worth a thousand words if you know
graphs you can do a lot with this also
too once you start doing graph transfer
transformations if you know these basic
graphs that's going to be crucial than
coming up with the the graph
transformation so again method at all
fancy here more than anything just a
little refresher so feel free to take a
look at my website I've got lots of
other videos that are covered of
different topics that are covered a
little more in depth
all right in this video I just want to
talk a little bit about some graph
theory and just some basic terminology
and ideas they get used so definitely
not going to be a you know a complete
version of everything you need to know
but definitely some basic ideas so graph
theory got started by really kind of I
think really came about by Leonardo and
what he did is he solved a problem the
famous bridge of coningsburgh problem
and that kind of a put graph theory sort
of out there for people to start
thinking about and for a while graph
theories kind of kind of poo-pooed on it
was kind of considered I think sort of a
recreational branch of math not really a
ton of uses but uh definitely with the
advent here of computer science that's
changed all that graph theory gets used
all the time in computer science lots of
other places as well
definitely become a very hot area to
research and I like it just because the
problems are easy to understand you can
draw pictures and visualize I definitely
enjoy it but let's see so the definition
of a graph that we're going to use and
these vary again from person to person
things still aren't really set in stone
a lot of the notation and definitions
but for us a graph is going to be a
non-empty finite set of vertices some
people will let it be infinite with a
set of two elements subsets of V we call
the elements of V vertices and the
elements of a are called edges so that
sounds may be a little more confusing
that it is all a graph is it's just dots
and lines connecting that's all a graph
is okay so we talked about graph theory
we're not talking about y equals x
squared
just just points and lines connecting
them so we would say the vertex set V
for this
graphs maybe we'll call it G are just v1
v2 v3 v4 v5 and v6 and you can think
really you know maybe these are just six
people at a party and v1 knows v2 v3 v4
you can see that v5 only knows person v4
and v6 maybe that's what an edge
represents is if they know each other
okay you know and you can make the edges
represent whatever you want to so maybe
we'll just think about the edges as
meaning there's a connection between
them and they know each other so the
edge set that's just going to be all two
elements subsets and basically we just
list all the vertices that have an edge
between them so v1 and v2 v1 and v3 v1
and v4
let's see v4 is connected to V 5 and
then vertex V 5 is connected to V 6 and
I think that's everything we need you
know we don't need to list V 6 is
connected to V 5 for example it's just
redundant already so if I had you know
again basically just this set in this
set e again it's just basically telling
me all the information in this original
graph so I still know that a couple
things the cardinality the cardinality
of a graph just represents the number of
vertices
the notation I've seen is they'll put an
absolute value so the absolute value of
G the cardinality of G is just the
number of vertices which in this case is
six
let's see another thing that we often
talk about is the degree of a vertex so
for example the degree of vertex v1
which will abbreviate little deg v1 all
that tells you is the number of edges
coming out from vertex v1 so there's one
two three edges leaving v1 so we would
say the degree of vertex v1 is three
again so vertex v1 knows three other
people is all that says another kind of
convention for a typical graph we don't
let a vertex have a loop back to itself
okay I mean definitely that certainly
happens in a lot of applications but
when we lao graphs to have loops back to
themselves typically people will call
those multi graphs so multi grass have
loops regular graphs don't have loops so
pretend that loops not there and we just
got the original the original matrix
that we are the original graph we
started with a couple other things to
the way that you draw the graph is
irrelevant
so here's V one here's V two here's V
three here's V 4 V 5 down there I want
to make it too crazy v 6 you know they
don't have to be straight lines they can
be whatever they want so okay so V 1 is
still connected to V 2 V 1 should still
be connected to V 3 V 1 is still
connected to V 4
we'll have v4 still connected to v5 and
hey v5 is still connected to vertex v6
so all the original connections are
still preserved and there's sort of no
new connections in there that weren't
there before
so when you have a graph where basically
all the original information is
preserved the original connections
there's no new connections there's
nothing missing and again this is very
kind of loose definition but we would
say that the original graph and this new
graph are isomorphic and all that means
is from a graph theory point of view
they're one in the same they're exactly
the same graph okay so typically tribuna
will try to draw them as a you know in
the least confusing manner as possible
but definitely an important idea the way
that you draw the graph in general
doesn't matter let's talk about a couple
other ideas just a way to describe a
graph one way is with what's called an
adjacency list and I don't know how
useful these are I never really saw them
much but again I didn't take a
tremendous amount of graph theory so
that doesn't mean that they don't get
used all the time and I just haven't ran
into it but all an adjacency list is
exactly what you think so all we do is
just list vertex that our vertices that
are adjacent so for v1 it's adjacent to
v1
excuse me fee one's adjacent to v2 v3
and v4
so we'll list those v2 v3 v4 vertex V 2
is only adjacent to v1 v3 is only
connected to v1 v4 is connected to V 1
and V 5
v5 is connected to v4 and v6 and v6 is
connected to v5 and again it's just
another way of summarizing you know so
this is Jason C list this set V in the
set E and this graph again are telling
me all the exact same information
another way that I know gets used all
the time is instead of doing an
adjacency list we'll make what's called
an adjacency matrix okay so I'm going to
imagine v1 v2 v3 typically people won't
even write these but you know this is
what makes sense to me so a lot of times
I used to always stick them in there v1
v2 v3 v4 v5 v6 all we do is if there's a
loop if there's a connection from a
vertex to another vertex we'll put a 1
and if there's not we'll put a 0 so
since there's not a loop from v1 to v1
we'll put a 0 there but v1 is connected
to v2 v3 and v4 so V once connected to
v2 v3 and v4 but it's not connected to
v5 or v6 there's not an edge present
likewise v2 is only connected to v1 so
we'll put a 1 there and then we'll put
zeros everywhere else
let's see v3 is also only connected to V
ones we'll put a 1 there and zeros
everywhere else v4 is connected to v1
and also to v5 so we'll put ones there
zeros everywhere else v5 is connected to
v4 and v6 so put ones there zeroes
everywhere else
lastly v6 is only connected to v5 so
we'll put a one there
and zeros everywhere else so this is
nice because you can do math of major
Z's ok so definitely there's a lot of
study done with you know matrix
representations of graphs you can do
stuff with them two less things just
maybe two last ideas notice for any
vertex here if you you know so imagine
maybe these are islands now and there's
a little bridge connecting the islands
notice in this this graph if you ever
were to leave an island suppose I was at
Island v1 and I went to Island v4 the
only way I can get back to Island v1 is
the sort of backtrack you know I could
go all the way to v5 and v6 but
eventually to get back I have to take
you know the bridges back so there's no
loops or what are called circuits if
there are no loops or circuits we say
that this is an example of a what's
called a tree and the idea with trees is
you can always sort of rewrite them and
the reason why we call them trees is we
sort of can rewrite them you know so
here's v1 it's connected to V 2 V 3 V 4
V 4 is connected to V 5 and V five is
connected to V 6 so again these would be
isomorphic graphs but now it's kind of
if you flip it over and maybe it had
some more branches the idea that starts
to look like a tree trees get used all
the time for example you know imagine a
chess algorithm you know it's the first
move you know maybe you've got one two
three reasonable reasonable moves that
you're disposable at your disposal not
disposable at your disposal
you know and then maybe you know once
you consider this move maybe there's
only one logical move from that and then
from that there's only one logical move
so trees can help sort of represent sort
of searches you know a computer search
so definitely one place I know for sure
that they get studied again if a graph
so maybe this is a whole separate little
graph over here this graph we would say
has a circuit and the idea is a circuit
you know for example if I met this
vertex I can leave that vertex and still
manage to get back to it without really
ever backtracking through through an
edge or a vertice I don't have to visit
the same place twice as all it says ok
so this would be an example of a graph
that does have a circuit so graph theory
I think is really interesting you know
there's tons of open problems if you're
a budding math person out there and what
some challenging problems
there's definitely tons of open graph
theory problems that are very simple to
understand you know definitely you've
got to learn some of the techniques to
be able to attack things but a lot of it
is very sort of intuitive and I think
open you know sort of it's very user
friendly because what I'm trying to say
there's still some reasonable open
problems out there for people to tackle
for sure so if you are interested in
kind of getting your hands wet and doing
some harder problems
I say graph theory is a great place to
start maybe I can even post some open
questions so all right I hope this
little introduction makes some sense you
get nothing too heavy I definitely plan
on doing some more you know detailed
stuff but again hopefully this is a good
little warm-up and just a good little
intro to some of the ideas
hi I'm Rob welcome to math antics in
this lesson we're going to learn
something that's an important foundation
for tons of math problems including
those you'll encounter while learning
basic algebra we're going to learn about
graphing which basically means taking
mathematical relationships and turning
them into pictures hey friends welcome
back to the joy of graphing we're going
to pick up right where we left off we
already have this nice beautiful
function right here but it needs a
friend
and we're going to do that by adding
some points so let's put the next point
right here now all we need to do is
connect those points because they're all
friends and what do friends do they stay
connected oh and look at that that's
beautiful
well not the kind of picture that you
would hang on your wall graphing just
means making a visual representation of
an equation or data set so you can
understand it better it's a way of
helping you literally see how math works
when math is just a bunch of numbers and
symbols on a page it can be pretty
abstract and hard to relate to but
graphing is like a window into the
abstract world of math that helps us see
it more clearly
in fact the focus of our lesson today
actually looks a bit like a window and
it's called
the coordinate plane the coordinate
plane is the platform or stage that our
graphing will take place on but to
understand how it works we first need to
start with its closest relative the
number line
you remember how a number line works
right a number line starts at 0 and
represents positive numbers as you move
to the right and negative numbers as you
move to the left and there is usually
marks showing where each integer is
along the way
now imagine cloning that number line and
rotating the copy counterclockwise by 90
degrees so that the second number line
is perpendicular to the first and they
intersect at their zero points what we
have now is a number plane it's
basically like a two-dimensional version
of a number line but that second
dimension makes it much more useful with
a simple one-dimensional number line we
could show where various numbers were
located along that line by drawing or
plotting points but
no matter how many points we plot
they're always on the same line but with
the two-dimensional number plane we can
plot points anywhere in that 2d area and
that opens up a whole new world of
possibilities with the one-dimensional
number line plotting points was easy you
just needed one number to tell you where
to plot a point but with the
two-dimensional number plane you
actually need two numbers to plot each
point these two numbers are called
coordinates because they're the same
rank or order and they work together to
specify the location of a point on the
number plane in fact that's why the
number plane is often referred to as the
coordinate plane it's the stage for
plotting coordinates coordinates use a
special format to help you recognize
them the two numbers are put inside
parentheses with a comma between them as
a separator so when you see 2 comma 5 or
negative 7 comma 3 or 0 comma 1.5 you
know you're dealing with coordinates
okay to understand how coordinates work
remember that our number plane is formed
by combining two perpendicular number
lines from now on we're going to refer
to each one of these number lines as an
axis one of the axes is horizontal like
the horizon which means the other axis
is vertical or straight up and down and
they're often called the horizontal and
vertical axes because of that but even
more often the axes are referred to by
variable base names the horizontal axis
is called the x-axis and the vertical
axis is called the y-axis why use
variable names well there's two good
reasons the first is that variable names
are more flexible than horizontal and
vertical which relate to specific
orientations in space that may not
always be relevant and the second reason
is that each of the two coordinate
numbers is actually a variable that
relates to a specific position along one
of the two axes of the coordinate plane
and since those variables are usually
called x and y it makes sense to name
the two axes the same way the first
coordinate number listed will be called
X and the second coordinate number
listed will be called Y and we're always
going to list the numbers in that same
order X first and then Y so that we
never get confused about which is which
in fact coordinates are often called
ordered
because there are a pair of numbers that
are always listed in the same order X
value first Y value second so if you
have the coordinates 3 comma 5 that
means x equals 3 and y equals 5 pretty
easy right but now how do we actually
plot these coordinates or ordered pairs
on the coordinate plane well the first
number in the ordered pair tells you
where along the x axis the point is
located and the second number in the
ordered pair tells you where along the y
axis the point is located the two
numbers in an ordered pair work together
to define a single point and each one of
the numbers only gives you half of the
information about where that point is to
see how this works let's plot the
coordinates 3 comma 2 first we locate
the x value along the x axis which is at
3 in this case but instead of putting a
point there we draw or just imagine a
line perpendicular to the x axis that
goes through the 3 we do that because
the first number in the ordered pair
only tells us where along the x axis the
point is but it could be anywhere along
the y axis we won't know that until we
plot the second number so temporarily we
just draw a line there to represent
every possible point that could have an
x value of 3 next we locate the y value
along the y axis which is at 2 in this
case but again instead of putting a
point there we draw or just imagine a
line perpendicular to the y axis that
goes through the two we do that because
the second number in the ordered pair
only tells us where along the y axis the
point is but it could be anywhere along
the x axis so we just draw a line there
to represent every possible point that
could have a y-value of 2 ah but look
what we've got now the first line
represents all the possible locations
where x equals 3 and the second line
represents all the possible locations
where y equals 2 and the exact point
where the two lines intersect represents
the only point in the entire coordinate
plane where both x equals 3 and y equals
2 that intersection is the location of
our point
pretty cool huh and that's a really good
way to understand how the coordinate
plane works but I want to show you an
even easier and more intuitive way to
actually plot points
more intuitive way involved starting
with the point at the origin of the
coordinate plane and then treating the
coordinates like a set of simple
instructions that tell you how far to
move your point in the X and y
directions for example to plot the
coordinates 3 comma 2 like before we
start by imagining a point at the origin
zero comma zero then we look at the
first number in our ordered pair to see
how far we need to move our point in the
x-direction since X is positive three we
move our point the distance of three
units in the positive x-direction and
then from there since Y is positive 2 we
move our point a distance of two units
in the positive y direction so that's a
pretty easy method for plotting points
let's try it a few more times so you get
the idea let's plot the coordinates
negative 4 comma 3 again we start by
imagining a point at the origin and then
let the coordinates tell us how far to
move it along the x and y axes since X
is negative 4 we move the point a
distance of 4 units but this time in the
negative x-direction which is to the
left and then since Y is positive 3 we
move the point a distance of 3 units in
the positive y direction now let's plot
the coordinates negative 3 comma
negative 3 in this case x and y are both
negative so starting with a point at 0
comma 0 we move it 3 units in the
negative x-direction and then three
units in the negative y-direction and
last let's plot the coordinates 4 comma
negative 2 point 5 starting at 0 comma 0
we move the point 4 units in the
positive x-direction and then two and a
half units in the negative y-direction
okay so we've plotted four ordered pairs
the easy way and did you notice that
each of these points is located in a
different region of the coordinate plane
these four regions are called quadrants
and their boundaries are defined by the
two axes of the coordinate plane the
quadrants are named 1 through 4 so we
can easily refer to them in
conversations if we need to
quadrant 1 is the upper right quadrant
and it contains all of the points where
both the x and y values are positive
quadrant 2 is the upper left and it
contains all of the points that have a
negative x value and a positive Y value
quadrant three is the lower-left and it
contains all of the points that have
both a negative x and a negative Y value
and quadrant four is the lower right and
it contains all of the points that have
a positive x value and a negative Y
value Roman numerals are usually used to
label the four quadrants and they're in
that order because that's order you
would encounter the quadrants if you
started with a line segment from the
origin to the coordinate one comma 0 and
then rotated that line counterclockwise
around the origin doing this sweeps out
a shape called a unit circle which is
divided into four quadrants just like
the coordinate plane all right
so now you know what the coordinate
plane is and you know how to plot points
on it but you might be wondering what
does this got to do with basic algebra
well algebra involves many different
types of equations and functions that
are a lot easier to understand if we
graph their solutions on the coordinate
plane and as you know the way to really
get good at math is to practice what
you've learned by doing some exercise
problems thanks for watching math antics
and I'll see you next time that's
exactly what I wanted
learn more at math antics comm
this is how you can plot a simple graph
with Microsoft Excel
we have the concentration in milligram
per ml on the x-axis and the absorbance
on the y-axis so let's select the data
points then let's go to the chart wizard
click on it select XY scatter then
select the first chart subtype click on
next next then let's put in the chart
title here on the x-axis we have the
concentration in milligram per ml and on
the y-axis we have the absorbance click
on next and finally on finish
so that's your graph in Microsoft Excel
to get rid of the legend just use the
delete button you can also remove the
grey color by double-clicking on the
chart area and by choosing the option
none to increase the size of the data
points just double-click on any data
point and increase the size from here
just to get better clarity
you can also get rid of the gridlines by
right-clicking on the plot area and by
going to chart options good lines just
uncheck this option and that's it now
let's add a trendline to this graph for
that you need to go to chart then click
on add trendline select the first option
which is linear go to options and check
this option which will display an
equation on your chart
so this is your graph in Microsoft Excel
thanks for watching have a good day
